.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *             Copyright 2005\-2016, Intel Corporation               *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.TH  codecov 1 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2005\-2016" "Intel(R) Code Coverage Tool " 
.SS NAME
.PP
codecov \- Invokes the code coverage tool 
.NL
.SS SYNOPSIS
.PP
codecov [options] 
.NL
.PP
where: 
.IP \(bu 2
[options] represents zero
or more tool options (listed below) 
.NL
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The code coverage tool provides the ability to determine how much
application code is executed when a specific workload is applied to the
application. You must prepare the application code using specific options
before you can use the code coverage tool. The code coverage tool is available
on IA\-32 and Intel(R) 64 architectures on Linux* and OS X*. 
.PP
.PP
.B NOTE:
The complete process of preparing the application for code coverage
tool use is documented in the Tools section of the Intel(R) Compiler Developer
Guide and Reference. 
.PP
The major features of the code coverage tool are: 
.IP \(bu 2
Visually presenting code coverage information for an application with
a customizable code coverage coloring scheme. 
.IP \(bu 2
Displaying dynamic execution counts of each basic block of the
application. 
.IP \(bu 2
Providing differential coverage, or comparison, profile data for two
runs of an application. 
.PP
The tool analyzes static profile information generated by the compiler,
as well as dynamic profile information generated by running an instrumented
form of the application binaries on the workload. The tool can generate a
report in HTML\-format and export data in both text\- and XML\-formatted files.
The reports can be further customized to show color\-coded, annotated
source\-code listings that distinguish between used and unused code. 
.PP
This man page is intended for Linux* and OS X* users. 
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
To see lists of compiler options by functionality, specify a category for option \-help on the command line. For a list of the categories you can specify, see \-help below. 
.SS Option Alphabetic Summary
.PP
This section provides an alphabetic listing of available 
codecov Tool options. 
.NL
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 18
\-bcolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name for code in the uncovered
blocks. The default is #FFFF99. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-beginblkdsbl <string> 
.NL
Specifies the comment that marks the beginning of the code
fragment to be ignored by the coverage tool. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-ccolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name or code of the covered code.
The default color is #FFFFFF. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-comp<file>
.NL
Specifies the file name that
contains the list of files being (or not) displayed. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-counts
.NL
Generates dynamic execution
counts. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-demang
.NL
Demangles both function names and
their arguments. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-dpi<file>
.NL
Specifies the file name of the
dynamic profile information file (.dpi). The default file
is pgopti.dpi 
.NL
.TP 18
\-endblkdsbl <string> 
.NL
Specifies the comment that marks
the end of the code fragment to be ignored by the coverage tool. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fcolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name for
code of the uncovered functions. The default color is #FFCCCC. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-help, 
\-h
.NL
Prints tool option descriptions. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-icolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name or
code of the information lines, such as basic\-block markers and dynamic counts.
The default color is #FFFFFF. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-maddr <string> 
.NL
Sets the email address of the
web\-page owner. The default owner is Nobody. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-mname <string> 
.NL
Sets the name of the web\-page
owner. The default name is Nobody. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-nopartial
.NL
Treats partially covered code as
fully covered code. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-nopmeter
.NL
Turns off the progress meter. The
meter is enabled by default. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-onelinedsbl <string> 
.NL
Specifies the comment that marks
individual lines of code or the whole functions to be ignored by the coverage
tool. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-pcolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name or
code of the partially covered code. The default color is #FAFAD2. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-prj <string> 
.NL
Sets the project name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-ref
.NL
Finds the differential coverage
with respect to ref_dpi_file. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-spi<file>
.NL
Specifies the file name of the
static profile information file (.spi). The default is
pgopti.spi 
.NL
.TP 18
\-srcroot<dir>
.NL
Specifies a different top level
project directory than was used during compiler instrumentation run to use for
relative paths to source files in place of absolute paths. In order for the
substitution to take place, the sources need to be compiled with one of the
following options: [Q]prof\-src\-root or [Q]prof\-src\-root\-cwd. These options
specify the base directory that is to be treated as the project root directory.
For details about options \-prof\-src\-root and \-prof\-src\-root\-cwd, refer to the
descriptions of \-prof\-src\-root (Linux* and OS X*) and /Qprof\-src\-root
(Windows*) or \-prof\-src\-root\-cwd (Linux* and OS X*) and /Qprof\-src\-root\-cwd
(Windows*) in the Developer Guide and Reference. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-txtbcvrg<file>
.NL
Export block\-coverage for covered
functions as text format. The file parameter must be in the form of a valid
file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-txtbcvrgfull<file>
.NL
Export block\-coverage for entire
application in text and HTML formats. The file parameter must be in the form of
a valid file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-txtdcg<file>
.NL
Generates the dynamic call\-graph
information in text format. The file parameter must be in the form of a valid
file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-txtfcvrg<file>
.NL
Export function coverage for
covered function in text format. The file parameter must by in the form of a
valid file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-ucolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color name or
code of the unknown code. The default color is #FFFFFF. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-xcolor <color> 
.NL
Specifies the HTML color of the
code ignored. The default color is #90EE90. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-xmlbcvrg<file>
.NL
Export the block\-coverage for the
covered function in XML format. The file parameter must by in the form of a
valid file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-xmlbcvrgfull<file>
.NL
Export function coverage for
entire application in XML format in addition to HTML output. The file parameter
must be in the form of a valid file name. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-xmlfcvrg<file>
.NL
Export function coverage for
covered function in XML format. The file parameter must be in the form of a
valid file name. 
.NL
.SS EXAMPLES
.IP 1) 4n 
codecov 
.IP
Runs the code coverage tool using all the default settings. Only an HTML file will be generated. 
.IP 2) 4n 
codecov \-xmlbcvrg blockcov.xml \-beginblkdsbl "Begin" \-end\-blkdsbl "End" 
.IP
Creates an XML block\-coverage report. The report will not contain corresponding coverage information. 
.IP 3) 4n 
codecov \-xmlbcvrgfull blockcov.xml \-beginblkdsbl "Begin" \-endblkdsbl "End" \-ccolor green \-bcolor red \-xcolor light\-green 
.IP
Creates an XML full block\-coverage report and an HTML file with customized colors. Corresponding coverage informationwill not appear in the report, but it will be marked in the HTML file. 
.SS INSTRUCTIONS ON USING THE CODE COVERAGE TOOL
.PP
To run the tool: 
.IP 1) 4n 
Create the instrumented binary and corresponding static profile information file (.spi) by compiling with \-prof\-genx. 
.IP 2) 4n 
Run the instrumented application. The dynamic profile information file (.dyn) will be created automatically. 
.IP 3) 4n 
Merge the dynamic profile information into one file (.dpi) by using the profmerge tool. 
.IP 4) 4n 
Run the code coverage tool using the options and syntax listed (above). 
.NL
.SH TECHNICAL SUPPORT
.PP
You can find product documentation for many released products at
http://software.intel.com/en\-us/intel\-software\-technical\-documentation/. 
.SS Product Website and Support 
.PP
To find technical support information, to register
your product, or to contact Intel, please visit:
https://software.intel.com/en\-us/support/. 
.NL
.PP
At this site, you will find comprehensive product
information, including: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Links to each product, where you will find
technical information such as white papers, support, articles, and user forums 
.IP \(bu 2
Links to news and events 
.SS Release Notes
.PP
For detailed information on system requirements, late changes to the
products, supported architectures, operating systems, and Integrated
Development Environments (IDE) see the Release Notes for this product. 
.NL
.SS Forums
.PP
You can find helpful information in the Intel Software user forums.
You can also submit questions to the forums. To see the list of the available
forums, go to https://software.intel.com/en\-us/forum/. 
.NL
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Refer to the Intel(R) Compiler Documentation for detailed information about using this tool in C++ and Fortran.
.SH Legal Information
.PP
No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any
intellectual property rights is granted by this document. 
.NL
.PP
Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without
limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, and non\-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of
performance, course of dealing, or usage in trade. 
.NL
.PP
This document contains information on products, services and/or
processes in development. All information provided here is subject to change
without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest
forecast, schedule, specifications and roadmaps. 
.NL
.PP
The products and services described may contain defects or errors
which may cause deviations from published specifications. Current characterized
errata are available on request. 
.NL
.PP
Copies of documents which have an order number and are referenced in this
document, or other Intel literature, may be obtained by calling 1\-800\-548\-4725,
or go to: http://www.intel.com/design/literature.htm 
.PP
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for
non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel
microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction
sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability,
functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not
manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product
are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not
specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors.
Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more
information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice.
Notice revision #20110804 
.PP
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Atom, Intel Core, Intel Cilk, Intel VTune,
MMX, Pentium, Xeon, and Intel Xeon Phi are trademarks of Intel Corporation in
the U.S. and/or other countries. 
.PP
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the
property of others. 
.PP
(C) 2016, Intel Corporation. 
.PP
Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Hewlett\-Packard Development Company, L.P. 
