.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *             Copyright 2005\-2016, Intel Corporation               *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.TH  IFORT 1 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2005\-2016" "Intel(R) Fortran Compiler Options" 
.PP
ifort \- invokes the Intel(R) Fortran Compiler 
.NL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
ifort [ options ] file1 [ file2 ]... 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
options 
.NL
Are zero or more compiler options. 
.TP 18
fileN 
.NL
Is a Fortran source file, assembly file,
object file, object library, or other linkable file. 
.SH DESCRIPTION \- ifort
.PP
The ifort command invokes the Intel(R) Fortran
Compiler XE, which is designed to preprocess, compile, assemble, and link
Fortran programs on systems using supported architectures (see your Release
Notes).  If a description does not
explicitly state an architecture restriction, assume that the description is
applicable to all supported architectures. 
.PP
When there is a restriction, you will see "Architecture Restrictions",
which will show the relevant restriction. 
.PP
The 
.B ifort
command interprets input files by their filename
suffix as follows: 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .f90 are interpreted as
free\-form Fortran 95/90 source files. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .f, .for, or .ftn are
interpreted as fixed\-form Fortran source files. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .fpp, .F, .FOR, .FTN,
or .FPP are interpreted as fixed\-form Fortran source files, which must be
preprocessed by the fpp preprocessor before being compiled. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .F90 are interpreted as
free\-form Fortran source files, which must be pre\-processed by the fpp
preprocessor before being compiled. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .s are interpreted as
assembler files and are passed to the assembler. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .S are interpreted as
assembler files and are preprocessed by the fpp preprocessor before being
passed to the assembler. 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .a are interpreted as
object libraries and are passed to ld(1). 
.IP \(bu 2
Filenames with the suffix .o are interpreted as
compiled object files and are passed to ld(1). 
.PP
You can override some options specified on the
command line by using the OPTIONS statement in your Fortran source program. An
OPTIONS statement affects only the program unit in which the statement occurs.
For more information, see the Intel(R) Fortran Language Reference. 
.PP
This man page is intended for Linux* and OS X* users. However,
sometimes you will see shortcuts for option names. You may see either or both
of the following shortcuts: 
.IP \(bu 2
If you see 
[Q]option\-name, it means that the name of the option is the
same on Linux*, OS X*, and Windows*, except that the Windows form starts with a
Q. For example, if you see [Q]ip, the Linux and OS X form of
the option is 
\-ip and the Windows form of the option is 
/Qip. 
.IP \(bu 2
If you see 
[q or Q]option\-name, it means that the name of the option is
very similar except that the Linux* and OS X* forms start with a q and the
Windows form starts with a Q. For example, if you see 
[q or Q]opt\-report, the Linux and OS X form of the option
is 
\-qopt\-report and the Windows form of the option is 
/Qopt\-report. 
.PP
Otherwise, Linux* and OS X* compiler option names are shown with an
initial "\-". 
.SS Options that Improve Run\-Time
Performance
.PP
The following command line options can be used to
increase the run\-time performance of code generated by the Intel(R) Fortran
Compiler: 
.IP \(bu 2
On systems using IA\-32 architecture and systems
using Intel(R) 64 architecture: \-ax<processor>, 
\-ftz, 
\-ip, 
\-ipo, 
\-march=<processor>, 
\-mtune=<processor>, 
\-O[n], 
\-openmp, 
\-parallel, 
\-prof\-gen, 
\-prof\-use, \-x<processor>. 
.NL
.SS Configuration and Indirect Files
.PP
Command options to be used whenever the compiler is
invoked can be put into a system configuration file named 
ifort.cfg, which resides in the same area as the
compiler. 
.NL
.PP
The text in this file is processed by 
.B ifort
before the text on the command line. To use a
personal configuration file, set the environment variable IFORTCFG to point to
the path and filename to be used. 
.NL
.PP
An indirect file contains text that can be included
on the 
.B ifort
command line. Precede the filename with an at
symbol (@) on the command line
at the point where the options are to be inserted. For example, assume file
double_size contains options "\-i8
\-r8" and file my_includes contains options "\-I/bld/inc \-I/bld/headers". In this
case, the following command line: 
ifort \-O3 @double_size myprog.f90 @my_includes passes "\-O3 \-i8 \-r8
myprog.f90 \-I/bld/inc \-I/bld/headers" to the compiler. 
.NL
.SH Feature Requirements
.PP
Some features may require that other products also be installed. 
.PP
To use these tools and features, you need licensed versions of the
tools and you must have an appropriate supported version of the relevant
product edition. For more information, check your product release notes. 
.PP
The following table shows components (tools) and some of the products
with which they are included. 
.TP 18
\fBComponent 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBIncluded with these Products 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) Inspector 
.NL
Intel(R) Parallel Studio Professional
Edition, Intel(R) Parallel Studio Cluster Edition 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) Trace Analyzer and Collector 
.NL
Intel(R) Parallel Studio Cluster Edition 
.NL
.PP
The following table lists dependent features and their corresponding
required products. 
.PP
For certain compiler options, compilation may fail if
the option is specified but the required product is not installed. In this
case, remove the option from the command line and recompile. 
.PP
For more information about requirements for a
particular product, see http://www.intel.com/software/products/. 
.IP \(bu 2
Feature: Thread Checking 
Requirement: Intel(R) Inspector 
.IP \(bu 2
Feature: Trace Analyzing and Collecting 
Requirement: Intel(R) Trace Analyzer and Collector 
Compiler options related to this feature may require a set\-up
script. For further information, see the documentation supplied with the
required product. 
.IP \(bu 2
Feature: Privatization of static data for the MPC unified parallel
runtime 
Requirement: Appropriate elements of the MultiProcessor Computing
(MPC) framework 
You need to install the MPC unified parallel runtime. For more
information, see http://mpc.hpcframework.com/ 
.PP
You should also refer to the Release Notes for this product for detailed
information about system requirements, late changes to the products, supported
architectures, operating systems, and Integrated Development Environments. 
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
Some compiler options
have the form 
\-name keyword. Both 
\-name and keyword can be abbreviated. It is recommended that
you use the first four characters of each. For example, 
\-assume buffered_io can be specified as 
\-assu buff. 
.PP
To see lists of compiler
options by functionality, specify a category for option \-help on the command
line. For a list of the categories you can specify, see 
\-help below. 
.PP
For information on
linker and load\-time options, see ld(1). 
.PP
For some options, you
can (or must) specify additional information, such as a keyword, a directory, a
file name, a number, and so forth. When this information is required, it is
shown in angle brackets (<>); when it is optional, it is shown in square
brackets ([]). For example, in option 
\-align <keyword>, 
\fIkeyword\fR is required; in option 
\-unroll[n], 
\fIn\fR (a number) is optional. 
.TP
.B
\-align [keyword[, 
keyword...]]
.TP
.B
\-noalign
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler how to align certain
data items.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the data items to align. Possible values
are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Prevents padding bytes anywhere in common
blocks and structures.
.TP 15
array\fIn\fRbyte
Specifies a starting boundary for arrays.
.TP 15
[no]commons
Affects alignment of common block entities.
.TP 15
[no]dcommons
Affects alignment of common block entities.
.TP 15
[no]qcommons
Affects alignment of common block entities.
.TP 15
[no]zcommons
Affects alignment of common block entities.
.TP 15
[no]records
Affects alignment of derived\-type components
and fields of record structures.
.TP 15
rec\fIn\fRbyte
Specifies a size boundary for derived\-type
components and fields of record structures.
.TP 15
[no]sequence
Affects alignment of sequenced derived\-type
components.
.TP 15
all
Adds padding bytes whenever possible to data
items in common blocks and structures.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nocommons
.NL
Adds no padding bytes for alignment of common
blocks.
.TP 18
nodcommmons
.NL
Adds no padding bytes for alignment of common
blocks.
.TP 18
noqcommmons
.NL
Adds no padding bytes for alignment of common
blocks.
.TP 18
nozcommmons
.NL
Adds no padding bytes for alignment of common
blocks.
.TP 18
records
.NL
Aligns derived\-type components and record structure
fields on default natural boundaries.
.TP 18
nosequence
.NL
Causes derived\-type components declared with the
SEQUENCE statement to be packed, regardless of current alignment rules set by
the user.
.PP
By default, no padding is added to common blocks but
padding is added to structures.
.NL
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the alignment to use for certain
data items. The compiler adds padding bytes to perform the alignment.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
align none
.NL
Tells the compiler not to add padding bytes
anywhere in common blocks or structures. This is the same as specifying 
noalign.
.NL
.TP 18
align array\fIn\fRbyte
.NL
Aligns the start of arrays on an 
\fIn\fR\-byte
boundary. 
\fIn\fR can be
8, 16, 32, 64, 128, or 256. The default value for 
\fIn\fR is 8.
This affects the starting alignment for all arrays except for arrays in COMMON.
.TP 18
Arrays do not have padding between their
elements.
.NL
.TP 18
align commons
.NL
Aligns all common block entities on natural
boundaries up to 4 bytes, by adding padding bytes as needed.
.TP 18
The 
align nocommons
option adds no padding to common blocks. In this case, unaligned data can occur
unless the order of data items specified in the COMMON statement places the
largest numeric data item first, followed by the next largest numeric data (and
so on), followed by any character data.
.NL
.TP 18
align dcommons
.NL
Aligns all common block entities on natural
boundaries up to 8 bytes, by adding padding bytes as needed.
.TP 18
This option is useful for applications that use
common blocks, unless your application has no unaligned data or, if the
application might have unaligned data, all data items are four bytes or
smaller. For applications that use common blocks where all data items are four
bytes or smaller, you can specify 
align commons
instead of 
align dcommons.
.TP 18
The 
align
nodcommons option adds no padding to common blocks.
.NL
.TP 18
align qcommons
.NL
Aligns all common block entities on natural
boundaries up to 16 bytes, by adding padding bytes as needed.
.TP 18
This option is useful for applications that use
common blocks, unless your application has no unaligned data or, if the
application might have u naligned data, all data items are eight bytes or
smaller. For applications that use common blocks where all data items are eight
bytes or smaller, you can specify 
align dcommons
instead of 
align qcommons.
.TP 18
The 
align
noqcommons option adds no padding to common blocks.
.NL
.TP 18
align zcommons
.NL
Aligns all common block entities on natural boundaries up to 32
bytes, by adding padding bytes as needed.
.TP 18
This option is useful for applications that use common blocks,
unless your application has no unaligned data or, if the application might have
unaligned data, all data items are 16 bytes or smaller. For applications that
use common blocks where all data items are 16 bytes or smaller, you can specify
align qcommons instead of 
align zcommons.
.TP 18
The 
align nozcommons option adds no padding to common
blocks.
.NL
.TP 18
align norecords
.NL
Aligns components of derived types and fields
within record structures on arbitrary byte boundaries with no padding.
.TP 18
The align records option requests that multiple
data items in record structures and derived\-type structures without the
SEQUENCE statement be naturally aligned, by adding padding as needed.
.NL
.TP 18
align rec\fIn\fRbyte
.NL
Aligns components of derived types and fields
within record structures on the smaller of the size boundary specified
(\fIn\fR) or the boundary
that will naturally align them. 
\fIn\fR can be 
1, 2, 4, 8, 16, or 32. The default value for 
\fIn\fR is
8. When you specify this option, each structure member after the first is
stored on either the size of the member type or 
\fIn\fR\-byte
boundaries, whichever is smaller. For example, to specify 16 bytes as the
packing boundary (or alignment constraint) for all structures and unions in the
file prog1.f, use the following command:
.TP 18
ifort {\-align rec16byte |
/align:rec16byte} prog1.f
.TP 18
This option does not affect whether common
blocks are naturally aligned or packed.
.NL
.TP 18
align sequence
.NL
Aligns components of a derived type declared
with the SEQUENCE statement (sequenced components) according to the alignment
rules that are currently in use. The default alignment rules are to align
unsequenced components on natural boundaries.
.TP 18
The 
align
nosequence option requests that sequenced components be packed
regardless of any other alignment rules. Note that 
align none
implies 
align
nosequence.
.TP 18
If you specify an option for standards
checking, 
align sequence
is ignored.
.NL
.TP 18
align all
.NL
Tells the compiler to add padding bytes
whenever possible to obtain the natural alignment of data items in common
blocks, derived types, and record structures. Specifies 
align
dcommons, align records, align nosequence. This is the same as
specifying 
align with no 
\fIkeyword\fR.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
align none
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-noalign
.TP 18
align records
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-align rec16byte, 
\-Zp16
.TP 18
align norecords
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-Zp1, 
\-align rec1byte
.TP 18
align recnbyte
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-Zp{1|2|4|8|16}
.TP 18
align all
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-align commons\-align dcommons\-align records\-align nosequence
.RE
.TP
.B
\-allow keyword
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler allows certain behaviors.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the behaviors to allow or disallow. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
[no]fpp_comments
Determines how the fpp preprocessor treats Fortran end\-of\-line comments in preprocessor directive lines.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
fpp_comments
.NL
The compiler recognizes Fortran\-style end\-of\-line comments in preprocessor lines.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler allows certain behaviors.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
allow nofpp_comments
.NL
Tells the compiler to disallow Fortran\-style end\-of\-line comments on preprocessor lines. Comment indicators have no special meaning.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-altparam
.TP
.B
\-noaltparam
.RS
.TP
Allows alternate syntax (without parentheses) for PARAMETER statements.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
altparam
.NL
The alternate syntax for PARAMETER statements is allowed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that the alternate syntax for PARAMETER statements is allowed. The alternate syntax is: 
.PP
PARAMETER c = expr [, c = expr] ...
.PP
.NL
.PP
This statement assigns a name to a constant (as does the standard PARAMETER statement), but there are no parentheses surrounding the assignment list.
.NL
.PP
In this alternative statement, the form of the constant, rather than implicit or explicit typing of the name, determines the data type of the variable.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
altparam
.NL
Linux and OS X: None 
.TP 18
noaltparam
.NL
Linux and OS X: None
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ansi\-alias
.TP
.B
\-no\-ansi\-alias
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to assume certain
rules of the Fortran standard regarding aliasing and array bounds. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-ansi\-alias 
.NL
Programs adhere to the Fortran standard\[aq]s rules
regarding aliasing and array bounds. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to assume
certain rules of the Fortran standard regarding aliasing and array bounds. 
.NL
.PP
It tells the compiler to assume that the program adheres
to the following rules of the Fortran standard: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Arrays cannot be accessed outside of
declared bounds. 
.IP \(bu 2
A dummy argument may have its
definition status changed only through that dummy argument, unless it has the
TARGET attribute. 
.PP
This option is similar to option 
assume nodummy_aliases with the additional restriction on
array bounds. 
.NL
.PP
If 
\-no\-ansi\-alias (Linux*
and OS X*) or 
/Qansi\-alias\- (Windows*)
is specified, the compiler assumes that the program might not follow the
Fortran standard\[aq]s rules regarding dummy argument aliasing and array bounds;
this can possibly affect performance. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-assume 
keyword[, 
keyword...]
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to make certain
assumptions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the assumptions to be made. Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Disables all assume options. 
.TP 15
[no]bscc
Determines whether the backslash character is
treated as a C\-style control character syntax in character literals. 
.TP 15
[no]buffered_io
Determines whether data is immediately read
from or written to disk or accumulated in a buffer. For variable length,
unformatted files, determines whether data is buffered on input or read
directly from disk to user variables. 
.TP 15
[no]buffered_stdout
Determines whether data is immediately
written to the standard output device or accumulated in a buffer. 
.TP 15
[no]byterecl
Determines whether units for the OPEN
statement RECL specifier (record length) value in unformatted files are in
bytes or longwords (four\-byte units). 
.TP 15
[no]cc_omp
Determines whether conditional compilation as
defined by the OpenMP Fortran API is enabled or disabled. 
.TP 15
[no]dummy_aliases
Determines whether the compiler assumes that
dummy arguments to procedures share memory locations with other dummy arguments
or with COMMON variables that are assigned. 
.TP 15
[no]fpe_summary
Determines whether a floating\-point
exceptions summary is displayed when a STOP statement is encountered. 
.TP 15
[no]ieee_fpe_flags
Determines whether the floating\-point
exception and status flags are saved on routine entry and restored on routine
exit. 
.TP 15
[no]minus0
Determines whether the compiler uses Fortran
2003 or Fortran 90/77 standard semantics in the SIGN intrinsic when treating
\-0.0 and +0.0 as 0.0, and how it writes the value on formatted output. 
.TP 15
[no]old_boz
Determines whether the binary, octal, and
hexadecimal constant arguments in intrinsic functions INT, REAL, DBLE, and
CMPLX are treated as signed integer constants. 
.TP 15
[no]old_ldout_format
Determines the output of integer and real
values in list\-directed and namelist\-directed output. 
.TP 15
[no]old_logical_assign
Determines the behavior in assignment
statements of logical values assigned to numeric variables and numeric values
assigned to logical variables. 
.TP 15
[no]old_logical_ldio
Determines whether NAMELIST and list\-directed
input accept logical values for numeric IO\-list items and numeric values for
logical IO\-list items. 
.TP 15
[no]old_maxminloc
Determines the results of intrinsics MAXLOC
and MINLOC when given an empty array as an argument or every element of the
mask is false. 
.TP 15
[no]old_unit_star
Determines whether unit * is treated the same
as units 5 and 6, or is distinct. 
.TP 15
[no]old_xor
Determines whether .XOR. is defined by the
compiler as an intrinsic operator. 
.TP 15
[no]protect_allocates
Determines whether memory
allocation requests using the ALLOCATE statement are protected with critical
sections to avoid random timing problems in a multi\-threaded environment. 
.TP 15
[no]protect_constants
Determines whether a constant actual argument
or a copy of it is passed to a called routine. 
.TP 15
[no]protect_parens
Determines whether the optimizer honors
parentheses in REAL and COMPLEX expression evaluations by not reassociating
operations. 
.TP 15
[no]realloc_lhs
Determines whether the
compiler uses the current Fortran Standard rules or the old Fortran 2003 rules
when interpreting assignment statements. 
.TP 15
[no]source_include
Determines whether the compiler searches for
USE modules and INCLUDE files in the default directory or in the directory
where the source file is located. 
.TP 15
[no]std_intent_in
Determines whether the compiler assumes that
dummy arguments with the INTENT(IN) attribute in a called procedure are not
modified across a call, in accordance with the Fortran standard. 
.TP 15
[no]std_minus0_rounding
Determines whether to display a negative
value that is not zero but rounds to zero on output with a leading minus sign. 
.TP 15
[no]std_mod_proc_name
Determines whether the names of module
procedures are allowed to conflict with user external symbol names. 
.TP 15
[no]std_value
Determines whether the VALUE attribute has
the effect as if the actual argument is assigned to a temporary, and the
temporary is then passed to the called procedure so that subsequent changes to
the value of the dummy argument do not affect the actual argument, in
accordance with the Fortran standard. 
.TP 15
[no]underscore
Determines whether the compiler appends an
underscore character to external user\-defined names. 
.TP 15
[no]2underscores (Linux and OS X)
Determines whether the compiler appends two
underscore characters to external user\-defined names. 
.TP 15
[no]writeable\-strings
Determines whether character constants go
into non\-read\-only memory. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nobscc
.NL
The backslash character is treated as a normal
character in character literals. 
.TP 18
nobuffered_io
.NL
Data in the internal buffer is immediately read
from or written (flushed) to disk (OPEN specifier BUFFERED=\[aq]NO\[aq]). Data read
from variable length, unformatted files is read directly from disk to a user\[aq]s
variables. 
.IP
If you set the FORT_BUFFERED environment variable
to true, the default is 
assume buffered_io. 
.TP 18
nobuffered_stdout
.NL
Data is not buffered for the standard output device
but instead is written immediately to the device. 
.TP 18
nobyterecl
.NL
Units for OPEN statement RECL values with
unformatted files are in four\-byte (longword) units. 
.TP 18
nocc_omp 
.NL
Conditional compilation as defined by the OpenMP
Fortran API is disabled unless option 
[q or Q]openmp is
specified. 
.IP
If compiler option 
[q or Q]openmp is
specified, the default is 
assume cc_omp. 
.TP 18
nodummy_aliases 
.NL
Dummy arguments to procedures do not share memory
locations with other dummy arguments or with variables shared through use
association, host association, or common block use. 
.TP 18
nofpe_summary 
.NL
Suppresses a summary of floating\-point exceptions
from being displayed when a STOP statement is encountered. 
.TP 18
noieee_fpe_flags 
.NL
The flags are not saved on routine entry and they
are not restored on routine exit. 
.TP 18
nominus0 
.NL
The compiler uses Fortran 90/77 standard semantics
in the SIGN intrinsic to treat \-0.0 and +0.0 as 0.0, and writes a value of 0.0
with no sign on formatted output. 
.TP 18
noold_boz 
.NL
The binary, octal, and hexadecimal constant
arguments in intrinsic functions INT, REAL, DBLE, and CMPLX are treated as bit
strings that represent a value of the data type of the intrinsic, that is, the
bits are not converted. 
.TP 18
old_ldout_format 
.NL
For list\-directed and namelist\-directed output,
integers are written with a fixed width that is dependent on the integer kind,
and zero real values are written using the E format. 
.TP 18
noold_logical_assign 
.NL
In the assignment statement L = N, where L is a logical variable and
N is a numeric value, N is converted to integer if necessary, and L is assigned
the value .FALSE. if the integer value is 0, and .TRUE. if the integer value is
\-1 or 1 according to the setting of the compiler option 
fpscomp logicals. 
.IP
In the assignment statement N = L, where N is a variable of numeric
type and L is a logical value, if L is .FALSE., N is assigned the value 0,
converted, if necessary, to the type of N. If L is .TRUE., N is assigned the
value 1 or \-1, converted, if necessary, to the type of N, according to the
setting of the compiler option 
fpscomp logicals. 
.IP
The compiler option 
fpscomp logicals specifies that non\-zero values are
treated as true and zero values are treated as false. The literal constant
.TRUE. has an integer value of 1 and the literal constant .FALSE. has an
integer value of 0. 
.IP
The default is 
fpscomp nologicals, which specifies that odd integer
values (low bit one) are treated as true and even integer values (low bit zero)
are treated as false. The literal constant .TRUE. has an integer value of \-1
and the literal constant .FALSE. has an integer value of 0. 
.TP 18
noold_logical_ldio 
.NL
Tells the compiler that NAMELIST and list\-directed
input cannot accept logical values (T, F, etc.) for numeric (integer, real, and
complex) IO\-list items or numeric values for logical IO\-list items. If this
option is specified and a logical value is given for a numeric item or a
numeric value is given for a logical item in NAMELIST and list\-directed input,
a run\-time error will be produced. 
.TP 18
old_maxminloc
.NL
MAXLOC and MINLOC return 1 when given an empty
array as an argument or every element of the mask is false. 
.TP 18
old_unit_star
.NL
The READs or WRITEs to UNIT=* go to stdin or
stdout, respectively, even if UNIT=5 or 6 has been connected to another file. 
.TP 18
old_xor
.NL
Intrinsic operator .XOR. is defined by the
compiler. 
.TP 18
noprotect_allocates
.NL
Memory allocation requests using
the ALLOCATE statement are not protected with critical sections and may
encounter random timing problems in a multi\-threaded environment. 
.TP 18
protect_constants
.NL
A constant actual argument is passed to a called
routine. Any attempt to modify it results in an error. 
.TP 18
noprotect_parens
.NL
The optimizer reorders REAL and COMPLEX expressions
without regard for parentheses by reassociating operations if it produces
faster executing code. 
.TP 18
realloc_lhs
.NL
Tells the compiler that when the left\-hand side of
an assignment is an allocatable object, it should be reallocated to the shape
of the right\-hand side of the assignment before the assignment occurs. This is
the current Fortran Standard definition. This feature may cause extra overhead
at run time. The option 
standard\-realloc\-lhs has the same effect as 
assume realloc_lhs. 
.TP 18
source_include
.NL
The compiler searches for USE modules and INCLUDE
files in the directory where the source file is located. 
.TP 18
std_intent_in
.NL
The compiler assumes that dummy arguments with the
INTENT(IN) attribute in a called procedure are not modified across a call, in
accordance with the Fortran standard. 
.TP 18
std_minus0_rounding
.NL
A negative value that is not zero but rounds to
zero on output is displayed with a leading minus sign. For example, the value
\-0.00000001 in F5.1 format will be displayed as \-0.0 rather than as 0.0. 
.TP 18
nostd_mod_proc_name
.NL
The compiler allows the names of module procedures
to conflict with user external symbol names. 
.TP 18
std_value
.NL
The compiler assumes that the VALUE attribute has
the effect as if the actual argument is assigned to a temporary, and the
temporary is then passed to the called procedure so that subsequent changes to
the value of the dummy argument do not affect the actual argument, in
accordance with the Fortran standard. 
.TP 18
Windows: 
nounderscore Linux and OS X: 
underscore
.NL
On Windows* systems, the compiler does not append
an underscore character to external user\-defined names. On Linux* and OS X*
systems, the compiler appends an underscore character to external user\-defined
names. 
.TP 18
no2underscores (Linux and OS X)
.NL
The compiler does not append two underscore
characters to external user\-defined names that contain an embedded underscore. 
.TP 18
nowriteable\-strings
.NL
The compiler puts character constants into
read\-only memory. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies assumptions to be made by the
compiler. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
assume none
.NL
Disables all the assume options. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume bscc
.NL
Tells the compiler to treat the backslash
character (\) as a C\-style control (escape) character syntax in character
literals. The "bscc" keyword means "BackSlashControlCharacters." 
.NL
.TP 18
assume buffered_io
.NL
Tells the compiler to accumulate records in a
buffer. This sets the default for opening sequential files to BUFFERED=\[aq]YES\[aq],
which also occurs if the FORT_BUFFERED run\-time environment variable is
specified. 
.TP 18
When this option is specified, the internal
buffer is filled, possibly by many record input statements (READ) or output
statements (WRITE), before it is read from disk, or written to disk, by the
Fortran run\-time system. If a file is opened for direct access, I/O buffering
is ignored. 
.TP 18
Using buffered reads and writes usually makes
disk I/O more efficient by handling larger blocks of data on disk less often.
However, if you request buffered writes, records not yet written to disk may be
lost in the event of a system failure. 
.TP 18
The OPEN statement BUFFERED specifier applies
to a specific logical unit. In contrast, the 
assume
[no]buffered_io option and the FORT_BUFFERED environment variable
apply to all Fortran units. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume buffered_stdout
.NL
Tells the Fortran run\-time system to accumulate
data for the standard output device in a buffer. 
When the buffer is full or the uses
executes a FLUSH on OUTPUT_UNIT in intrinsic module ISO_FORTRAN_ENV, the data
is displayed on the standard output unit.
.TP 18
Using buffered writes may be a more efficient
in time and space but use 
assume nobuffered_stdout if you want data displayed
immediately on the standard output device, like for an input prompt. 
.TP 18
assume [no]buffered_stdout does not affect and is
not affected by 
assume [no]buffered_io. 
.TP 18
After compiling with this option, the default
blocksize for stdout is 8 KB. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume byterecl
.NL
Specifies that the units for the OPEN statement
RECL specifier (record length) value are in bytes for unformatted data files,
not longwords (four\-byte units). For formatted files, the RECL value is always
in bytes. 
.TP 18
If a file is open for unformatted data and 
assume byterecl
is specified, INQUIRE returns RECL in bytes; otherwise, it returns RECL in
longwords. An INQUIRE returns RECL in bytes if the unit is not open. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume cc_omp
.NL
Enables conditional compilation as defined by
the OpenMP Fortran API. That is, when "!$space" appears in free\-form source or
"c$spaces" appears in column 1 of fixed\-form source, the rest of the line is
accepted as a Fortran line. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume dummy_aliases
.NL
Tells the compiler that dummy (formal)
arguments to procedures share memory locations with other dummy arguments
(aliases) or with variables shared through use association, host association,
or common block use. 
.TP 18
Specify the option when you compile the called
subprogram. The program semantics involved with dummy aliasing do not strictly
obey Standard Fortran and they slow performance, so you get better run\-time
performance if you do not use this option. 
.TP 18
However, if a program depends on dummy aliasing
and you do not specify this option, the run\-time behavior of the program will
be unpredictable. In such programs, the results will depend on the exact
optimizations that are performed. In some cases, normal results will occur, but
in other cases, results will differ because the values used in computations
involving the offending aliases will differ. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume fpe_summary
.NL
Causes a summary of floating\-point exceptions
that occurred during program execution to be displayed when a STOP statement is
encountered. Counts will be shown for each exception. This is the behavior
specified by the Fortran 2003 standard. 
.TP 18
Note that if there is no STOP statement, no
summary is displayed. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume ieee_fpe_flags
.NL
Tells the compiler to save floating\-point
exception and status flags on routine entry and restore them on routine exit. 
.TP 18
This option can slow runtime performance
because it provides extra code to save and restore the floating\-point exception
and status flags (and the rounding mode) on entry to and exit from every
routine compiled with the option. 
.TP 18
This option can be used to get the full
Fortran Standard behavior of intrinsic modules IEEE EXCEPTIONS, IEEE
ARITHMETIC, and IEEE FEATURES, which require that if a flag is signaling on
routine entry, the processor will set it to quiet on entry and restore it to
signaling on return. If a flag signals while the routine is executing, it will
not be set to quiet on routine exit. 
.TP 18
Options 
fpe and 
fpe\-all can be used to set the initial state for
which floating\-point exceptions will signal. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume minus0
.NL
Tells the compiler to use Fortran 95 standard
semantics for the treatment of the IEEE* floating value \-0.0 in the SIGN
intrinsic, which distinguishes the difference between \-0.0 and +0.0, and to
write a value of \-0.0 with a negative sign on formatted output. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume old_boz
.NL
Tells the compiler that the binary, octal, and
hexadecimal constant arguments in intrinsic functions INT, REAL, DBLE, and
CMPLX should be treated as signed integer constants. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume noold_ldout_format
.NL
Tells the compiler to use Fortran 2003 standard
semantics for output of integer and real values in list\-directed and
namelist\-directed output. 
.TP 18
Integers are written using an I0 format with a leading blank for
spacing. 
.TP 18
Real and complex values are written using and E or F format with
a leading blank for spacing. The format used depends on the magnitude of the
value. Values that are zero are written using an F format. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume old_logical_assign
.NL
In the assignment statement L = N, where L is a logical variable
and N is a numeric value, N is converted to integer if necessary, and L is
assigned the bit value of the integer value without conversion. 
.TP 18
In the assignment statement N = L, where N is a variable of
numeric type and L is a logical value, N is assigned the bit value of the value
of L without conversion. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume old_logical_ldio
.NL
Logical values are allowed for numeric items
and numeric values are allowed for logical items. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume noold_maxminloc
.NL
Tells the compiler that MAXLOC and MINLOC
should return 0 when given an empty array as an argument or every element of
the mask is false. Compared to the default setting
(old_maxminloc), this behavior may slow performance because of
the extra code needed to check for an empty array argument or for an all\-false
mask. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume noold_unit_star
.NL
Tells the compiler that READs or WRITEs to
UNIT=* go to the file to which UNIT=5 or 6 is connected. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume noold_xor
.NL
Prevents the compiler from defining .XOR. as an
intrinsic operator. This lets you use .XOR. as a user\-defined operator. This is
a Fortran 2003 feature. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume protect_allocates
.NL
Memory allocation requests using the ALLOCATE
statement are protected with critical sections to avoid random timing problems
in a multi\-threaded environment in some distributions and configurations. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume noprotect_constants
.NL
Tells the compiler to pass a copy of a constant
actual argument. This copy can be modified by the called routine, even though
the Fortran standard prohibits such modification. The calling routine does not
see any modification to the constant. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume protect_parens
.NL
Tells the optimizer to honor parentheses in
REAL and COMPLEX expression evaluations by not reassociating operations. For
example, (A+B)+C would not be evaluated as A+(B+C). 
.TP 18
If assume noprotect_parens is specified,
(A+B)+C would be treated the same as A+B+C and could be evaluated as A+(B+C) if
it produced faster executing code. 
.TP 18
Such reassociation could produce different
results depending on the sizes and precision of the arguments. 
.TP 18
For example, in (A+B)+C, if B and C had
opposite signs and were very large in magnitude compared to A, A+B could result
in the value as B; adding C would result in 0.0. With reassociation, B+C would
be 0.0; adding A would result in a non\-zero value. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume norealloc_lhs
.NL
The compiler uses the old Fortran 2003 rules when interpreting
assignment statements. The left\-hand side is assumed to be allocated with the
correct shape to hold the right\-hand side. If it is not, incorrect behavior
will occur. The option 
nostandard\-realloc\-lhs has the same effect as 
assume norealloc_lhs. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume nosource_include
.NL
Tells the compiler to search the default
directory for module files specified by a USE statement or source files
specified by an INCLUDE statement. This option affects fpp preprocessor
behavior and the USE statement. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume nostd_intent_in
.NL
Tells the compiler to assume that dummy
arguments with the INTENT(IN) attribute in a called procedure may be modified
across a call. This is not in accordance with the Fortran standard. 
.TP 18
If you specify option 
standard_semantics, it sets option 
assume std_intent_in. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume nostd_minus0_rounding
.NL
Tells the compiler to use pre\-Fortran 2008
standard semantics for the treatment of IEEE* floating values that are
negative, non\-zero, and when rounded for display are zero. The value should be
printed without a leading minus sign. 
.TP 18
For example, the floating value \-0.00000001
when rounded in F5.1 format will be displayed as 0.0. Use 
assume std_minus0_rounding to use Fortran 2008
standard semantics to display this value as \-0.0 when rounded in F5.1 format. 
.TP 18
assume [no]std_minus0_rounding does not affect
and is not affected by 
assume [no]minus0. The former controls printing of a
minus sign for non\-zero numbers while the latter controls printing of actual
signed zero values. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume std_mod_proc_name
.NL
Tells the compiler to revise the names of
module procedures so they do not conflict with user external symbol names. For
example, procedure 
proc in module 
m would be named 
m_MP_proc. The Fortran 2003 Standard requires that
module procedure names not conflict with other external symbols. 
.TP 18
By default, procedure 
proc in module 
m would be named 
m_mp_proc, which could conflict with a
user\-defined external name 
m_mp_proc. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume nostd_value
.NL
Tells the compiler to use pre\-Fortran 2003
standard semantics for the VALUE attribute so that the value of the actual
argument is passed to the called procedure, not the address of the actual
argument nor the address of a copy of the actual argument. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume underscore
.NL
Tells the compiler to append an underscore
character to external user\-defined names: the main program name, named common
blocks, BLOCK DATA blocks, global data names in MODULEs, and names implicitly
or explicitly declared EXTERNAL. The name of a blank (unnamed) common block
remains _BLNK__, and Fortran intrinsic names are not affected. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume 2underscores (Linux and OS X) 
.NL
Tells the compiler to append two underscore
characters to external user\-defined names that contain an embedded underscore:
the main program name, named common blocks, BLOCK DATA blocks, global data
names in MODULEs, and names implicitly or explicitly declared EXTERNAL. The
name of a blank (unnamed) common block remains _BLNK__, and Fortran intrinsic
names are not affected. 
.TP 18
This option does not affect external names that
do not contain an embedded underscore. By default, the compiler only appends
one underscore to those names. For example, if you specify 
assume
2underscores for external names 
my_program and 
myprogram, 
my_program becomes 
my_program__, but 
myprogram becomes 
myprogram_. 
.NL
.TP 18
assume writeable\-strings
.NL
Tells the compiler to put character constants
into non\-read\-only memory. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
assume nobscc
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-nbs
.TP 18
assume
dummy_aliases
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-common\-args
.TP 18
assume
protect_parens
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-fprotect\-parens
.TP 18
assume
realloc_lhs
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-standard\-realloc\-lhs
.RE
.TP
.B
\-auto\-scalar
.RS
.TP
Causes scalar variables of intrinsic
types INTEGER, REAL, COMPLEX, and LOGICAL that do not have the SAVE attribute
to be allocated to the run\-time stack.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-auto\-scalar
.NL
Scalar variables of intrinsic types INTEGER, REAL,
COMPLEX, and LOGICAL that do not have the SAVE attribute are allocated to the
run\-time stack. Note that the default changes to 
auto if one of the
following options are specified:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
recursive
.IP \(bu 2
[q
or Q]openmp
.RE
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes allocation of scalar variables of
intrinsic types INTEGER, REAL, COMPLEX, and LOGICAL to the run\-time stack. It
is as if they were declared with the AUTOMATIC attribute.
.NL
.PP
It does not affect variables that have the SAVE attribute
(which include initialized locals) or that appear in an EQUIVALENCE statement
or in a common block.
.NL
.PP
This option may provide a performance gain for your
program, but if your program depends on variables having the same value as the
last time the routine was invoked, your program may not function properly.
Variables that need to retain their values across subroutine calls should
appear in a SAVE statement.
.NL
.PP
You cannot specify option 
save or 
auto with this option.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Windows NT* systems, there is a performance penalty
for addressing a stack frame that is too large. This penalty may be incurred
with 
[Q]auto because arrays
are allocated on the stack along with scalars. However, with 
/Qauto\-scalar, you
would have to have more than 32K bytes of local scalar variables before you
incurred the performance penalty. 
/Qauto\-scalar enables
the compiler to make better choices about which variables should be kept in
registers during program execution.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-axcode
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate multiple,
feature\-specific auto\-dispatch code paths for Intel(R) processors if there is a
performance benefit. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIcode\fR
.NL
Indicates to the compiler a feature set that it may
target, including which instruction sets it may generate. The following
descriptions refer to Intel(R) Streaming SIMD Extensions (Intel(R) SSE) and
Supplemental Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSSE). Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
COMMON\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, as well as the instructions enabled with
CORE\-AVX2. 
.TP 15
MIC\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Exponential and Reciprocal
instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Prefetch instructions for Intel(R) processors, and
the instructions enabled with CORE\-AVX2. 
.IP
This keyword is only
available on Windows* and Linux*. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Doubleword and Quadword
instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Byte and Word instructions and Intel(R) AVX\-512
Vector Length extensions, as well as the instructions enabled with CORE\-AVX2. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX2
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 2 (Intel(R) AVX2), Intel(R) AVX, SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and
SSSE3 instructions for Intel(R) processors. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX\-I
May generate 
the RDRND instruction, Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions
(Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions
for Intel(R) processors. 
.TP 15
AVX
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3
instructions for Intel(R) processors. 
.TP 15
SSE4.2
May generate Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3,
SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions for Intel processors. 
.TP 15
SSE4.1
May generate Intel(R) SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE,
and SSSE3 instructions for Intel(R) processors. 
.TP 15
SSSE3
May generate SSSE3 instructions and Intel(R)
SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions for Intel(R) processors. For OS X* systems, this
value is only supported on Intel(R) 64 architecture. This replaces value T, which
is deprecated. 
.TP 15
SSE3
May generate Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE
instructions for Intel(R) processors. For OS X* systems, this value is only
supported on IA\-32 architecture. 
.TP 15
SSE2
May generate Intel(R) SSE2 and SSE instructions
for Intel(R) processors. This value is not available on OS X* systems. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No auto\-dispatch code is generated.
Feature\-specific code is generated and is controlled by the setting of the
following compiler options: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Linux*: 
\-m and 
\-x
.IP \(bu 2
OS X*: 
\-x
.RE
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate multiple,
feature\-specific auto\-dispatch code paths for Intel(R) processors if there is a
performance benefit. It also generates a baseline code path. The Intel
feature\-specific auto\-dispatch path is usually more optimized than the baseline
path. Other options, such as 
O3, control how much optimization is performed on the baseline
path. 
.NL
.PP
The baseline code path is determined by the architecture
specified by options 
\-m or 
\-x (Linux* and OS X*) or
options 
/arch or 
/Qx (Windows*). While
there are defaults for the 
[Q]x option that depend
on the operating system being used, you can specify an architecture and
optimization level for the baseline code that is higher or lower than the
default. The specified architecture becomes the effective minimum architecture
for the baseline code path. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify both the 
[Q]ax and 
[Q]x options, the
baseline code will only execute on Intel(R) processors compatible with the
setting specified for the 
[Q]x. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify both the 
\-ax and 
\-m options (Linux and OS X) or the 
/Qax and 
/arch options (Windows), the baseline code will execute on
non\-Intel processors compatible with the setting specified for the 
\-m or 
/arch option. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify both the 
\-ax and 
\-march options (Linux and OS X), or the 
/Qax and 
/arch options (Windows), the compiler will not generate
Intel\-specific instructions. 
.NL
.PP
The 
[Q]ax option tells the compiler to find opportunities to
generate separate versions of functions that take advantage of features of the 
specified instruction features. 
.NL
.PP
If the compiler finds such an opportunity, it first
checks whether generating a feature\-specific version of a function is likely to
result in a performance gain. If this is the case, the compiler generates both
a feature\-specific version of a function and a baseline version of the
function. At run time, one of the versions is chosen to execute, depending on
the Intel(R) processor in use. In this way, the program can benefit from
performance gains on more advanced Intel processors, while still working
properly on older processors and non\-Intel processors. A non\-Intel processor
always executes the baseline code path. 
.NL
.PP
You can use more than one of the feature values by
combining them. For example, you can specify 
\-axSSE4.1,SSSE3 (Linux
and OS X) or 
/QaxSSE4.1,SSSE3
(Windows). You cannot combine the old style, deprecated options and the new
options. For example, you cannot specify 
\-axSSE4.1,T (Linux and OS
X) or 
/QaxSSE4.1,T (Windows). 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Bdir
.RS
.TP
Specifies a directory that can be used to find include files, libraries, and executables.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the directory to be used. If necessary, the compiler adds a directory separator character at the end of \fIdir\fR.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler looks for files in the directories specified in your PATH environment variable.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies a directory that can be used to find include files, libraries, and executables.
.NL
.PP
The compiler uses \fIdir\fR as a prefix.
.NL
.PP
For include files, the \fIdir\fR is converted to \-I/\fIdir\fR/include. This command is added to the front of the includes passed to the preprocessor.
.NL
.PP
For libraries, the \fIdir\fR is converted to \-L/\fIdir\fR. This command is added to the front of the standard \-L inclusions before system libraries are added.
.NL
.PP
For executables, if \fIdir\fR contains the name of a tool, such as ld or as, the compiler will use it instead of those found in the default directories.
.NL
.PP
The compiler looks for include files in \fIdir\fR /include while library files are looked for in \fIdir\fR.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Bdynamic (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables dynamic linking of libraries at run time.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Limited dynamic linking occurs.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables dynamic linking of libraries at run time. Smaller executables are created than with static linking.
.NL
.PP
This option is placed in the linker command line corresponding to its location on the user command line. It controls the linking behavior of any library that is passed using the command line.
.NL
.PP
All libraries on the command line following option \-Bdynamic are linked dynamically until the end of the command line or until a \-Bstatic option is encountered. The \-Bstatic option enables static linking of libraries. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Bstatic (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables static linking of a user\[aq]s library.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Default static linking occurs.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables static linking of a user\[aq]s library.
.NL
.PP
This option is placed in the linker command line corresponding to its location on the user command line. It controls the linking behavior of any library that is passed using the command line.
.NL
.PP
All libraries on the command line following option \-Bstatic are linked statically until the end of the command line or until a \-Bdynamic option is encountered. The \-Bdynamic option enables dynamic linking of libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Bsymbolic (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Binds references to all global symbols in a program to the definitions within a user\[aq]s shared library.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
When a program is linked to a shared library, it can override the definition within the shared library.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option binds references to all global symbols in a program to the definitions within a user\[aq]s shared library.
.NL
.PP
This option is only meaningful on Executable Linkage Format (ELF) platforms that support shared libraries.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
This option can have unintended side\-effects of disabling symbol preemption in the shared library.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Bsymbolic\-functions (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Binds references to all global function symbols in a program to the definitions within a user\[aq]s shared library.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
When a program is linked to a shared library, it can override the definition within the shared library.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option binds references to all global function symbols in a program to the definitions within a user\[aq]s shared library.
.NL
.PP
This option is only meaningful on Executable Linkage Format (ELF) platforms that support shared libraries.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
This option can have unintended side\-effects of disabling symbol preemption in the shared library.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-c
.RS
.TP
Prevents linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Linking is performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prevents linking. Compilation stops after the object file is generated.
.NL
.PP
The compiler generates an object file for each Fortran source file.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.PP
Windows: /compile\-only, /nolink
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ccdefault keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies the type of carriage control used when a file is displayed at a terminal screen.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the carriage\-control setting to use. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Tells the compiler to use no carriage control processing.
.TP 15
default
Tells the compiler to use the default carriage\-control setting.
.TP 15
fortran
Tells the compiler to use normal Fortran interpretation of the first character. For example, the character 0 causes output of a blank line before a record.
.TP 15
list
Tells the compiler to output one line feed between records.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
ccdefault default
.NL
The compiler uses the default carriage control setting.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the type of carriage control used when a file is displayed at a terminal screen (units 6 and *). It provides the same functionality as using the CARRIAGECONTROL specifier in an OPEN statement.
.NL
.PP
The default carriage\-control setting can be affected by the vms option. If option vms is specified with ccdefault default, carriage control defaults to normal Fortran interpretation (ccdefault fortran) if the file is formatted and the unit is connected to a terminal. If option novms (the default) is specified with ccdefault default, carriage control defaults to list (ccdefault list).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-check [keyword[, 
keyword...]]
.TP
.B
\-nocheck
.RS
.TP
Checks for certain conditions at run
time.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the conditions to check. Possible values
are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Disables all check options.
.TP 15
[no]arg_temp_created
Determines whether checking occurs for actual
arguments before routine calls.
.TP 15
[no]assume
Determines whether checking occurs to test
that the 
\fIscalar\-Boolean\-expression\fR in the ASSUME
directive is true, or that the addresses in the ASSUME_ALIGNED directive are
aligned on the specified byte boundaries.
.TP 15
[no]bounds
Determines whether checking occurs for array
subscript and character substring expressions.
.TP 15
[no]format
Determines whether checking occurs for the
data type of an item being formatted for output.
.TP 15
[no]output_conversion
Determines whether checking occurs for the
fit of data items within a designated format descriptor field.
.TP 15
[no]pointers
Determines whether checking occurs for
certain disassociated or uninitialized pointers or unallocated allocatable
objects.
.TP 15
[no]stack
Determines whether checking occurs on the
stack frame.
.TP 15
[no]uninit
Determines whether checking occurs for
uninitialized variables.
.TP 15
all
Enables all check options.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nocheck
.NL
No checking is performed for run\-time failures.
Note that if option 
vms is specified,
the defaults are 
check format and 
check
output_conversion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option checks for certain conditions at run time.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
check none
.NL
Disables all check options (same as 
nocheck).
.NL
.TP 18
check arg_temp_created
.NL
Enables run\-time checking on whether actual
arguments are copied into temporary storage before routine calls. If a copy is
made at run\-time, an informative message is displayed.
.NL
.TP 18
check assume
.NL
Enables run\-time checking on whether the 
\fIscalar\-Boolean\-expression\fR in the ASSUME
directive is true and that the addresses in the ASSUME_ALIGNED directive are
aligned on the specified byte boundaries. If the test is .FALSE., a run\-time
error is reported and the execution terminates.
.NL
.TP 18
check bounds
.NL
Enables compile\-time and run\-time checking for
array subscript and character substring expressions. An error is reported if
the expression is outside the dimension of the array or the length of the
string.
.TP 18
For array bounds, each individual dimension is
checked. For arrays that are dummy arguments, only the lower bound is checked
for a dimension whose upper bound is specified as * or where the upper and
lower bounds are both 1.
.TP 18
For some intrinsics that specify a DIM= dimension argument, such
as LBOUND, an error is reported if the specified dimension is outside the
declared rank of the array being operated upon.
.TP 18
Once the program is debugged, omit this option
to reduce executable program size and slightly improve run\-time performance.
.TP 18
It is recommended that you do bounds checking
on unoptimized code. If you use option check bounds on optimized code, it may
produce misleading messages because registers (not memory locations) are used
for bounds values.
.NL
.TP 18
check format
.NL
Issues the run\-time FORVARMIS fatal error when
the data type of an item being formatted for output does not match the format
descriptor being used (for example, a REAL*4 item formatted with an I edit
descriptor).
.TP 18
With check noformat, the data item is formatted
using the specified descriptor unless the length of the item cannot accommodate
the descriptor (for example, it is still an error to pass an INTEGER*2 item to
an E edit descriptor).
.NL
.TP 18
check output_conversion
.NL
Issues the run\-time OUTCONERR continuable error
message when a data item is too large to fit in a designated format descriptor
field without loss of significant digits. Format truncation occurs, the field
is filled with asterisks (*), and execution continues.
.NL
.TP 18
check pointers
.NL
Enables run\-time checking for disassociated or
uninitialized Fortran pointers, unallocated allocatable objects, and integer
pointers that are uninitialized.
.NL
.TP 18
check stack
.NL
Enables checking on the stack frame. The stack
is checked for buffer overruns and buffer underruns. This option also enforces
local variables initialization and stack pointer verification.
.TP 18
This option disables optimization and overrides
any optimization level set by option 
O.
.NL
.TP 18
check uninit
.NL
Enables run\-time checking for uninitialized
variables. If a variable is read before it is written, a run\-time error routine
will be called. Only local scalar variables of intrinsic type INTEGER, REAL,
COMPLEX, and LOGICAL without the SAVE attribute are checked. 
.NL
.TP 18
check all
.NL
Enables all check options. This is the same as
specifying 
check with no
keyword.
.TP 18
This option disables optimization and overrides
any optimization level set by option 
O.
.NL
.PP
To get more detailed location information about where an
error occurred, use option 
traceback.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
check none
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-nocheck
.TP 18
check
bounds
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-CB
.TP 18
check
uninit
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-CU
.TP 18
check
all
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-check, \-C
.RE
.TP
.B
\-coarray[=keyword] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables the coarray feature. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the memory system where the coarrays
will be implemented. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
shared
Indicates a shared memory system. This is the
default. 
.TP 15
distributed
Indicates a distributed memory system. 
.TP 15
coprocessor
Indicates a configuration where image 1 is
running on the host processor, and other images are run on host processors or Intel(R) MIC Architecture
coprocessors. The configuration file is used to determine where the images
will be run; that is, how many on the host processors and how many on the
coprocessors. This results in an executable containing code that will replicate
itself NUM_IMAGES() more times, ultimately resulting in NUM_IMAGES()+1 running
images. This setting is only available on Linux* systems on Intel(R) 64
architecture. 
.IP
This setting requires that option 
\-coarray\-config\-file also be specified. 
.TP 15
single
Indicates a configuration where the image
does not contain self\-replication code. This results in an executable with a
single running image. This configuration can be useful for debugging purposes,
even though there are no inter\-image interactions. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Coarrays are not enabled without specifying this
option. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the coarray feature of the Fortran 2008 Standard. It
enables any coarray syntax in your program. If this option is not specified,
coarray syntax is rejected. 
.NL
.PP
It also tells the driver to link against appropriate libraries, and to
create the appropriate executables. 
.NL
.PP
Only one 
\fIkeyword\fR can be in effect. If you specify more than one 
\fIkeyword\fR, the last one specified takes precedence. However,
if 
\fIkeyword\fR single is specified anywhere on the command line,
it takes precedence. 
.NL
.PP
On Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, this option is only available on Linux* systems. 
.NL
.PP
You can specify option 
[Q]coarray\-num\-images to specify the default number of images
that can be used to run a coarray executable. If you do not specify that
option, you get the number of execution units on the current system. 
.NL
.PP
You can specify the 
[Q]coarray\-config\-file option to specify the name of a Message
Passing Interface (MPI) configuration file. 
.NL
.PP
Options 
[Q]coarray\-num\-images and 
[Q]coarray\-config\-file are valid for all 
\fIkeyword\fR values. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-coarray\-config\-file=filename (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies the name of a Message Passing
Interface (MPI) configuration file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
.TP 18
filename
.NL
Is the name of the MPI configuration file. You can specify a path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
When coarrays are enabled, the compiler uses
default settings for MPI.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the name of a Message Passing Interface (MPI)
configuration file. This file is used by the compiler when coarrays are
processed; it configures the MPI for multi\-node operations.
.NL
.PP
On Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, this option is only available on Linux* systems.
.NL
.PP
This option has no affect unless you also specify the 
[Q]coarray option, which is required to create the coarray
executable.
.NL
.PP
Note that when a setting is specified in environment variable
FOR_COARRAY_CONFIG_FILE, it overrides the compiler option setting.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-coarray\-num\-images=n (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies the default number of images
that can be used to run a coarray executable.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
.TP 18
n
.NL
Is the default number of images. The limit is determined from the
system configuration.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The number of images is determined at run\-time.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the default number of images that can be used to run a
coarray executable. 
.NL
.PP
On Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, this option is only available on Linux* systems.
.NL
.PP
This option has no affect unless you also specify the 
[Q]coarray option. This option is required to create the
coarray executable.
.NL
.PP
You can specify option 
[Q]coarray\-num\-images to specify the default number of images
that can be used to run a coarray executable. If you do not specify that
option, you get the number of execution units on the current system.
.NL
.PP
Note that when a setting is specified in environment variable
FOR_COARRAY_NUM_IMAGES, it overrides the compiler option setting.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-complex\-limited\-range
.TP
.B
\-no\-complex\-limited\-range
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the use of basic
algebraic expansions of some arithmetic operations involving data of type
COMPLEX is enabled.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-complex\-limited\-range 
.NL
Basic algebraic expansions of some arithmetic
operations involving data of type COMPLEX are disabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the use of basic algebraic
expansions of some arithmetic operations involving data of type COMPLEX is
enabled. 
.NL
.PP
When the option is enabled, this can cause performance
improvements in programs that use a lot of COMPLEX arithmetic. However, values
at the extremes of the exponent range may not compute correctly. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-convert 
keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies the format of unformatted files
containing numeric data. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the format for the unformatted numeric
data. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
native
Specifies that unformatted data should not be
converted. 
.TP 15
big_endian
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for integer data and big endian IEEE floating\-point for real and complex data. 
.TP 15
cray
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for integer data and CRAY* floating\-point for real and complex data. 
.TP 15
fdx (Linux*, OS X*)
Specifies that the format will be little
endian for integer data, and VAX processor floating\-point format F_floating,
D_floating, and IEEE binary128 for real and complex data. 
.TP 15
fgx (Linux, OS X)
Specifies that the format will be little
endian for integer data, and VAX processor floating\-point format F_floating,
G_floating, and IEEE binary128 for real and complex data. 
.TP 15
ibm
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for integer data and IBM* System\370 floating\-point format for real and complex
data. 
.TP 15
little_endian
Specifies that the format will be little
endian for integer data and little endian IEEE floating\-point for real and
complex data. 
.TP 15
vaxd
Specifies that the format will be little
endian for integer data, and VAX* processor floating\-point format F_floating,
D_floating, and H_floating for real and complex data. 
.TP 15
vaxg
Specifies that the format will be little
endian for integer data, and VAX processor floating\-point format F_floating,
G_floating, and H_floating for real and complex data. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
convert
native
.NL
No conversion is performed on unformatted files
containing numeric data. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the format of unformatted files
containing numeric data. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
convert native
.NL
Specifies that unformatted data should not be
converted. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert big_endian
.NL
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and big endian IEEE
floating\-point for REAL*4, REAL*8, REAL*16, COMPLEX*8, COMPLEX*16, or
COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert cray
.NL
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and CRAY* floating\-point for
REAL*8 or COMPLEX*16. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert fdx
.NL
Specifies that the format will be little endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and VAX processor
floating\-point format F_floating for REAL*4 or COMPLEX*8, D_floating for REAL*8
or COMPLEX*16, and IEEE binary128 for REAL*16 or COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert fgx
.NL
Specifies that the format will be little endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and VAX processor
floating\-point format F_floating for REAL*4 or COMPLEX*8, G_floating for REAL*8
or COMPLEX*16, and IEEE binary128 for REAL*16 or COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert ibm
.NL
Specifies that the format will be big endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, or INTEGER*4, and IBM* System\370 floating\-point
format for REAL*4 or COMPLEX*8 (IBM short 4) and REAL*8 or COMPLEX*16 (IBM long
8). 
.NL
.TP 18
convert little_endian
.NL
Specifies that the format will be little endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8 and little endian IEEE
floating\-point for REAL*4, REAL*8, REAL*16, COMPLEX*8, COMPLEX*16, or
COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert vaxd
.NL
Specifies that the format will be little endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and VAX processor
floating\-point format F_floating for REAL*4 or COMPLEX*8, D_floating for REAL*8
or COMPLEX*16, and H_floating for REAL*16 or COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.TP 18
convert vaxg
.NL
Specifies that the format will be little endian
for INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, or INTEGER*8, and VAX processor
floating\-point format F_floating for REAL*4 or COMPLEX*8, G_floating for REAL*8
or COMPLEX*16, and H_floating for REAL*16 or COMPLEX*32. 
.NL
.PP
Non\-native data conversion works on scalars and arrays of
intrinsic types: INTEGER*1, INTEGER*2, INTEGER*4, INTEGER*8, including
LOGICAL*1, LOGICAL*2, LOGICAL*4, LOGICAL*8, and REAL*4, REAL*8, REAL*16,
including COMPLEX*8, COMPLEX*16, and COMPLEX*32. Conversion does not work
inside defined type records on their individual fields. For example: 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-cxxlib
.TP
.B
\-no\-cxxlib
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler links using the C++ run\-time libraries  provided by gcc.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-cxxlib
.NL
The compiler uses the default run\-time libraries and does not link to any additional C++ run\-time libraries.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler links to the standard C++ run\-time library (libstdc++). It is useful for building mixed Fortran/C++ applications.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Dname[=value]
.RS
.TP
Defines a 
symbol name that can be
associated with an optional value. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIname\fR
.NL
Is the name of the 
symbol. 
.TP 18
\fIvalue\fR
.NL
Is an optional integer or an optional character
string delimited by double quotes; for example, 
D\fIname=string\fR. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
noD
.NL
Only default symbols or macros are defined. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
Defines a 
symbol name that can be
associated with an optional value. 
This definition is used during preprocessing in
both Intel(R) Fortran conditional compilation directives and the fpp
preprocessor. The D\fIname\fR=\fIvalue\fR will be ignored if there
are any non\-alphabetic, non\-numeric characters in 
\fIname\fR.
.NL
.PP
If a 
\fIvalue\fR is not
specified, 
\fIname\fR is defined as "1". 
.NL
.PP
If you want to specify
more than one definition, you must use separate 
D options. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
noD, all preprocessor
definitions apply only to fpp and not to Intel(R) Fortran conditional compilation
directives. To use this option, you must also specify the 
fpp option. 
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
On Linux* and OS X* systems, if you are not specifying
a 
\fIvalue\fR, do not use 
D for 
\fIname\fR, because it
will conflict with the 
\-DD option. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
D
.NL
Linux
and OS X: None Windows: 
/define:\fIname[=value]\fR
.TP 18
noD
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-nodefine Windows: 
/nodefine
.RE
.TP
.B
\-debug [keyword]
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables generation of
debugging information. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Is the type of debugging information to be
generated. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Disables generation of debugging information.
.TP 15
full or
all
Generates complete debugging information. 
.TP 15
minimal
Generates line number information for
debugging. 
.TP 15
[no]emit_column
Determines whether the compiler generates column
number information for debugging.
.TP 15
[no]inline\-debug\-info
Determines whether the compiler generates
enhanced debug information for inlined code. 
.TP 15
[no]pubnames
Determines whether the compiler generates a
DWARF debug_pubnames section. 
.TP 15
[no]semantic\-stepping
Determines whether the compiler generates
enhanced debug information useful for breakpoints and stepping. 
.TP 15
[no]variable\-locations
Determines whether the compiler generates
enhanced debug information useful in finding scalar local variables. 
.TP 15
extended
Sets keyword values 
semantic\-stepping and
variable\-locations. 
.TP 15
[no]parallel (Linux only)
Determines whether the compiler generates
parallel debug code instrumentations useful for thread data sharing and
reentrant call detection. 
.RE
.PP
For information on the non\-default settings for these
keywords, see the Description section. 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
varies
.NL
Normally, the default is 
\-debug none and no debugging information is generated.
However, on Linux*, the 
\-debug inline\-debug\-info option will be enabled by
default if you compile with optimizations (option 
\-O2 or higher) and debugging is enabled (option 
\-g). 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables generation of debugging
information. 
.NL
.PP
By default, enabling debugging, will disable
optimization. To enable both debugging and optimization use the 
\-debug option together
with one of the optimization level options (\-O3, 
\-O2 or 
\-O3). 
.NL
.PP
Keywords 
semantic\-stepping, 
inline\-debug\-info, 
variable\-locations, and 
extended can be used in
combination with each other. If conflicting keywords are used in combination,
the last one specified on the command line has precedence. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug none
.NL
Disables generation of debugging information. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug full or 
\-debug all
.NL
Generates complete debugging information. It is
the same as specifying 
\-debug with no
keyword. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug minimal
.NL
Generates line number information for
debugging. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug emit_column
.NL
Generates column number information for
debugging. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug inline\-debug\-info
.NL
Generates enhanced debug information for
inlined code. 
.TP 18
On inlined functions, symbols are (by default) associated with the
caller. This option causes symbols for inlined functions to be associated with
the source of the called function. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug pubnames
.NL
The compiler generates a DWARF debug_pubnames
section. This provides a means to list the names of global objects and
functions in a compilation unit. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug semantic\-stepping
.NL
Generates enhanced debug information useful for
breakpoints and stepping. It tells the debugger to stop only at machine
instructions that achieve the final effect of a source statement. 
.TP 18
For example, in the case of an assignment
statement, this might be a store instruction that assigns a value to a program
variable; for a function call, it might be the machine instruction that
executes the call. Other instructions generated for those source statements are
not displayed during stepping. 
.TP 18
This option has no impact unless optimizations
have also been enabled. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug variable\-locations
.NL
Generates enhanced debug information useful in
finding scalar local variables. It uses a feature of the Dwarf object module
known as "location lists". 
.TP 18
This feature allows the run\-time locations of
local scalar variables to be specified more accurately; that is, whether, at a
given position in the code, a variable value is found in memory or a machine
register. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug extended
.NL
Sets keyword values 
semantic\-stepping and 
variable\-locations. It
also tells the compiler to include column numbers in the line information. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-debug parallel
.NL
Generates parallel debug code instrumentations
needed for the thread data sharing and reentrant call detection. 
For this setting to be
effective, option 
\-qopenmp must be set.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, debuggers read debug information from
executable images. As a result, information is written to object files and then
added to the executable by the linker. 
.NL
.PP
On OS X* systems, debuggers read debug information from
object files. As a result, the executables don\[aq]t contain any debug information.
Therefore, if you want to be able to debug on these systems, you must retain
the object files. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
For 
\-debug full, 
\-debug all, or 
\-debug
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-g
.TP 18
For 
\-debug
variable\-locations
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-fvar\-tracking
.TP 18
For 
\-debug
semantic\-stepping
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-fvar\-tracking\-assignments
.RE
.TP
.B
\-debug\-parameters [keyword]
.TP
.B
\-nodebug\-parameters
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate debug information for PARAMETERs used in a program.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Are the PARAMETERs to generate debug information for. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Generates no debug information for any PARAMETERs used in the program. This is the same as specifying nodebug\-parameters.
.TP 15
used
Generates debug information for only PARAMETERs that have actually been referenced in the program. This is the default if you do not specify a \fIkeyword\fR.
.TP 15
all
Generates debug information for all PARAMETERs defined in the program.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nodebug\-parameters
.NL
The compiler generates no debug information for any PARAMETERs used in the program. This is the same as specifying \fIkeyword\fRnone.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate debug information for PARAMETERs used in a program.
.NL
.PP
Note that if a .mod file contains PARAMETERs, debug information is only generated for the PARAMETERs that have actually been referenced in the program, even if you specify \fIkeyword\fRall.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-type=diag\-list
.RS
.TP
Controls the display of diagnostic
information during compilation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fItype\fR
.NL
Is an action to perform on diagnostics. Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
enable
Enables a diagnostic message or a group of
messages. If you specify 
\-diag\-enable=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qdiag\-enable:all (Windows*), all diagnostic
messages shown in 
\fIdiag\-list\fR are enabled. 
.TP 15
disable
Disables a diagnostic message or a group of
messages. If you specify 
\-diag\-disable=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qdiag\-disable:all (Windows*), all diagnostic
messages shown in 
\fIdiag\-list\fR are disabled. 
.TP 15
error
Tells the compiler to change diagnostics to
errors. 
.TP 15
warning
Tells the compiler to change diagnostics to
warnings. 
.TP 15
remark
Tells the compiler to change diagnostics to
remarks (comments). 
.RE
.TP 18
\fIdiag\-list\fR
.NL
Is a diagnostic group or ID value. Possible values
are: 
.RS
.TP 15
driver
Specifies diagnostic messages issued by the
compiler driver. 
.TP 15
vec
Specifies diagnostic messages issued by the
vectorizer. 
.TP 15
par
Specifies diagnostic messages issued by the
auto\-parallelizer (parallel optimizer). 
.TP 15
openmp
Specifies diagnostic messages issued by the
OpenMP* parallelizer. 
.TP 15
warn
Specifies diagnostic messages that have a
"warning" severity level. 
.TP 15
error
Specifies diagnostic messages that have an
"error" severity level. 
.TP 15
remark
Specifies diagnostic messages that are
remarks or comments. 
.TP 15
cpu\-dispatch
Specifies the CPU dispatch remarks for
diagnostic messages. These remarks are enabled by default. 
.TP 15
id[,id,...]
Specifies the ID number of one or more
messages. If you specify more than one message number, they must be separated
by commas. There can be no intervening white space between each 
id. 
.TP 15
tag[,tag,...]
Specifies the mnemonic name of one or more
messages. If you specify more than one mnemonic name, they must be separated by
commas. There can be no intervening white space between each 
tag. 
.RE
.IP
The diagnostic messages generated can be affected
by certain options, such as 
[Q]x, 
/arch (Windows) or 
\-m (Linux and OS X). 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler issues certain diagnostic messages by
default. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the display of diagnostic
information during compilation. Diagnostic messages are output to stderr unless
the 
[Q]diag\-file option is
specified. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
The [Q]diag options do not control diagnostics emitted at run\-time. For
more information about run\-time errors and diagnostics, see 
\fIHandling Run\-Time
Errors\fR. 
.PP
To control the diagnostic information reported by the
vectorizer, use options 
[q or Q]opt\-report and 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-phase, phase 
vec. 
.NL
.PP
To control the diagnostic information reported by the
auto\-parallelizer, use options 
[q or Q]opt\-report and 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-phase, phase 
par. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
enable vec
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-qopt\-report; 
\-qopt\-report \-qopt\-report\-phase=vec
.TP 18
disable vec
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-qopt\-report=0 \-qopt\-report\-phase=vec
.TP 18
enable par
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-qopt\-report; 
\-qopt\-report \-qopt\-report\-phase=par
.TP 18
disable par
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-qopt\-report=0 \-qopt\-report\-phase=par
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-dump
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to print all enabled diagnostic messages and stop compilation.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler issues certain diagnostic messages by default.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to print all enabled diagnostic messages and stop compilation. The diagnostic messages are output to stdout.
.NL
.PP
This option prints the enabled diagnostics from all possible diagnostics that the compiler can issue, including any default diagnostics.
.NL
.PP
If \fIdiag\-list\fR is specified for the [Q]diag\-enable option, the print out will include the \fIdiag\-list\fR diagnostics.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-enable=sc[n] (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-diag\-enable=sc\-mode (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-diag\-disable=sc (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables static analysis diagnostics. You can determine which diagnostics to emit based on severity or you can specify an analysis mode for diagnostic messages. This is a deprecated option. There is no replacement option.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Specifies the level of severity to report. Possible values are:  
.RS
.TP 15
1
Reports only diagnostics with a severity level of "critical". Diagnostics with a severity level of "error" or "warning" are not displayed.
.TP 15
2
Reports all diagnostics with a severity level of "critical" and "error". Diagnostics with a severity level of "warning" are not reported. This is the default.
.TP 15
3
Reports all diagnostics regardless of the severity level.
.RE
.TP 18
\fImode\fR
.NL
Specifies the analysis mode. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
full
This mode attempts to find all program weaknesses, even at the expense of more false positives. This mode is recommended when using the tool for security assurance. 
.IP
This is the default if \-diag\-enable=sc{[1|2|3]} (Linux* OS and OS X*) or
/Qdiag\-enable:sc{[1|2|3]} (Windows* OS) is present. Otherwise, the default is
None (static analysis diagnostics are
disabled).
.TP 15
concise
This mode attempts to reduce false positives
somewhat more than reducing false negatives. This mode is recommended when using the tool for general error
detection.
.TP 15
precise
This mode attempts to avoid all false positives, even at the expense of substantially reduced error checking. This mode is recommended when using the tool for acceptance screening.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-diag\-disable=sc and /Qdiag\-disable:sc
.NL
Static analysis diagnostics are disabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables static analysis diagnostics. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify \fIn\fR for the option, you can determine which diagnostics to emit based on severity.  If you specify \fImode\fR, you can also specify an analysis mode for diagnostic messages. 
.NL
.PP
To disable static analysis, specify /Qdiag\-disable:sc (Windows* OS) or option \-diag\-disable=sc (Linux* OS). 
.NL
.PP
You can also specify the following options that affect the diagnostics:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Option [Q]diag\-error setting sc
This changes all Static Analysis diagnostics to errors.
.IP \(bu 2
Option [Q]diag\-warning setting sc
This changes all Static Analysis diagnostics to warnings.
.IP \(bu 2
Option [Q]diag\-remark setting sc
This changes all Static Analysis diagnostics to remarks (comments).
.PP
This static analysis feature requires installation of another product. For more information, see Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-enable=sc\-enums (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells static analysis to treat enumeration variables as known values equal to any one of the associated enumeration literals. This is a deprecated option. There is no replacement option.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
If static analysis is enabled, it treats unknown enumeration variables as unknown integer values.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells static analysis to treat enumeration variables as known values equal to any one of the associated enumeration literals.  By default, static analysis treats unknown enumeration variables as unknown integer values.  Setting this option may find additional errors but tends to create more false positives.
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you enable static analysis diagnostics by specifying option [Q]diag\-enable setting sc[n] or setting sc\-mode.
.NL
.PP
This static analysis feature requires installation of another product. For more information, see Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-enable=sc\-include (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells a source code analyzer to process include files and source files when issuing diagnostic messages.  This is a deprecated option. There is no replacement option.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler issues certain diagnostic messages by default. If static analysis is enabled, include files are not analyzed by default.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the static security analyzer to process include files and source files when issuing diagnostic messages. Normally, when static analysis diagnostics are enabled, only source files are analyzed. 
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you enable static analysis diagnostics by specifying option [Q]diag\-enable setting sc[n] or setting sc\-mode.
.NL
.PP
This static analysis feature requires installation of another product. For more information, see Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-enable=sc\-single\-file (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells static analysis to process each file individually. This is a deprecated option. There is no replacement option.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
If static analysis is
enabled, it analyzes the whole program.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells static analysis to process each file individually.  Skipping the usual whole\-program analysis reduces memory requirements and analysis time on large programs but often finds fewer real errors. 
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you enable static analysis diagnostics by specifying option [Q]diag\-enable setting sc[n] or setting sc\-mode.
.NL
.PP
This static analysis feature requires installation of another product. For more information, see Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-error\-limit=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-diag\-error\-limit
.RS
.TP
Specifies the maximum number of errors allowed before compilation stops.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the maximum number of error\-level or fatal\-level compiler errors allowed.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
30
.NL
A maximum of 30 error\-level and fatal\-level messages are allowed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the maximum number of errors allowed before compilation stops. It indicates the maximum number of error\-level or fatal\-level compiler errors allowed for a file specified on the command line. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify the negative form of the [Q]diag\-error\-limit option on the command line, there is no limit on the number of errors that are allowed.
.NL
.PP
If the maximum number of errors is reached, a warning message is issued and the next file (if any) on the command line is compiled.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-error\-limit and \-noerror\-limit
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-file[=filename] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Causes the results of diagnostic analysis
to be output to a file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file for output. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Diagnostic messages are output to stderr. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the results of diagnostic analysis to
be output to a file. The file is placed in the current working directory. 
.NL
.PP
You can include a file extension in 
\fIfilename\fR. For
example, if 
\fIfile.txt\fR is specified, the name of the output file is 
\fIfile.txt\fR. If you do not provide a file extension, the name
of the file is 
\fIfilename.diag\fR. 
.NL
.PP
If 
\fIfilename\fR is not
specified, the name of the file is 
\fIname\-of\-the\-first\-source\-file.diag\fR.
This is also the name of the file if the name specified for file conflicts with
a source file name provided in the command line. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify the 
[Q]diag\-file option and
you also specify the 
[Q]diag\-file\-append
option, the last option specified on the command line takes precedence. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-file\-append[=filename] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Causes the results of diagnostic analysis to be appended to a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file to be appended to. It can include a path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Diagnostic messages are output to stderr.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the results of diagnostic analysis to be appended to a file. If you do not specify a path, the driver will look for \fIfilename\fR in the current working directory. 
.NL
.PP
If \fIfilename\fR is not found, then a new file with that name is created in the current working directory. If the name specified for file conflicts with a source file name provided in the command line, the name of the file is \fIname\-of\-the\-first\-source\-file.diag\fR.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify the [Q]diag\-file\-append option and you also specify the [Q]diag\-file option, the last option specified on the command line takes precedence.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-id\-numbers
.TP
.B
\-no\-diag\-id\-numbers
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler displays diagnostic messages by using their ID number values.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-diag\-id\-numbers 
.NL
The compiler displays diagnostic messages by using their ID number values.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler displays diagnostic messages by using their ID number values. If you specify the negative form of the [Q]diag\-id\-numbers option, mnemonic names are output for driver diagnostics only.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-onceid[,id,...]
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to issue one or more diagnostic messages only once.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIid\fR
.NL
Is the ID number of the diagnostic message. If you specify more than one message number, they must be separated by commas. There can be no intervening white space between each \fIid\fR. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler issues certain diagnostic messages by default.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to issue one or more diagnostic messages only once.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-diag\-sc\-dir[=dir] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies a directory for static analysis results. This is a deprecated option. There is no replacement option.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the name of the directory where the results should be placed.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
If static analysis is enabled, analysis results are placed in the current working directory. For more details, see below.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies a directory for static analysis results. 
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify \fIdir\fR, the results are placed in the current working directory.  Results are placed in a subdirectory with the name r\fInnn\fRsc, where \fInnn\fR is replaced by the next available sequence number (001, 002, etc.).
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you enable static analysis diagnostics by specifying option [Q]diag\-enable setting sc[n] or setting sc\-mode.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-d\-lines
.TP
.B
\-nod\-lines
.RS
.TP
Compiles debug statements.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nod\-lines
.NL
Debug lines are treated as comment lines.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option compiles debug statements. It specifies that
lines in fixed\-format files that contain a D in column 1 (debug statements)
should be treated as source code.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-DD
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-double\-size size
.RS
.TP
Specifies the default KIND for DOUBLE PRECISION and DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
size
.NL
Specifies the default KIND for DOUBLE PRECISION and DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics. Possible values are: 64 (KIND=8) or 128 (KIND=16).
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
64
.NL
DOUBLE PRECISION variables are defined as REAL*8 and DOUBLE COMPLEX variables are defined as COMPLEX*16.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option defines the default KIND for DOUBLE PRECISION and DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
double\-size 64
.NL
Defines DOUBLE PRECISION declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics as REAL(KIND=8) (REAL*8) and defines DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations, functions, and intrinsics as COMPLEX(KIND=8) (COMPLEX*16).
.NL
.TP 18
double\-size 128
.NL
Defines DOUBLE PRECISION declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics as REAL(KIND=16) (REAL*16) and defines DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations, functions, and intrinsics as COMPLEX(KIND=16) (COMPLEX*32).
.NL
.PP
The real\-size option overrides the double\-size option; for example, on Linux* systems, "\-double\-size 64 \-real\-size 128" acts like
"\-double\-size 128 \-real\-size 128".
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-dryrun
.RS
.TP
Specifies that driver tool commands should be shown but not executed.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No tool commands are shown, but they are executed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that driver tool commands should be shown but not executed. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-dumpmachine
.RS
.TP
Displays the target machine and operating system configuration.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not display target machine or operating system information.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option displays the target machine and operating system configuration. No compilation is performed.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-dynamic\-linker file (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies a dynamic linker other than the default. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfile\fR
.NL
Is the name of the dynamic linker to be used.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The default dynamic linker is used.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify a dynamic linker other than the default.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-dynamiclib (M*X only)
.RS
.TP
Invokes the libtool command to generate dynamic libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler produces an executable.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option invokes the libtool command to generate dynamic libraries. 
.NL
.PP
When passed this option, the compiler uses the libtool command to produce a dynamic library instead of an executable when linking. 
.NL
.PP
To build static libraries, you should specify option \-staticlib or libtool \-static <objects>.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-dyncom "common1,common2,..."
.RS
.TP
Enables dynamic allocation of common
blocks at run time. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
common1,common2,...
.NL
Are the names of the common blocks to be
dynamically allocated. The list of names must be within quotes. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Common blocks are not dynamically allocated at run
time. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables dynamic allocation of the specified
common blocks at run time. For example, to enable dynamic allocation of common
blocks a, b, and c at run time, use this syntax: 
.NL
.PP
The following are some limitations that you should be
aware of when using this option: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
An entity in a dynamic common cannot be initialized
in a DATA statement. 
.IP \(bu 2
Only named common blocks can be designated as dynamic
COMMON. 
.IP \(bu 2
An entity in a dynamic common block must not be used
in an EQUIVALENCE expression with an entity in a static common block or a
DATA\-initialized variable. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-E
.RS
.TP
Causes the preprocessor to send output to stdout.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Preprocessed source files are output to the compiler.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the preprocessor to send output to stdout. Compilation stops when the files have been preprocessed.
.NL
.PP
When you specify this option, the compiler\[aq]s preprocessor expands your source module and writes the result to stdout. The preprocessed source contains #line directives, which the compiler uses to determine the source file and line number.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-EP
.RS
.TP
Causes the preprocessor to send output to
stdout, omitting #line directives. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Preprocessed source files are output to the
compiler. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the preprocessor to send output to 
stdout, omitting #line
directives. 
.NL
.PP
If you also specify 
option 
preprocess\-only, 
option 
P, or 
option 
F, the preprocessor will
write the results (without #line directives) to a file instead of 
stdout. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-extend\-source [size]
.TP
.B
\-noextend\-source
.RS
.TP
Specifies the length of the statement field in a fixed\-form source file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
size
.NL
Is the length of the statement field in a fixed\-form source file. Possible values are: 72, 80, or 132.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
72
.NL
If you do not specify this option or you specify noextend\-source, the statement field ends at column 72.
.TP 18
132
.NL
If you specify extend_source without \fIsize\fR, the statement field ends at column 132.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the size (column number) of the statement field of a source line in a fixed\-form source file. This option is valid only for fixed\-form files; it is ignored for free\-form files.
.NL
.PP
When size is specified, it is the last column parsed as part of the statement field. Any columns after that are treated as comments.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify \fIsize\fR, it is the same as specifying extend_source 132.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
extend\-source 72
.NL
Specifies that the statement field ends at column 72.
.NL
.TP 18
extend\-source 80
.NL
Specifies that the statement field ends at column 80.
.NL
.TP 18
extend\-source 132
.NL
Specifies that the statement field ends at column 132.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
extend\-source 72 
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-72
.TP 18
extend\-source 80
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-80
.TP 18
extend\-source 132
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-132
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Fdir (M*X only)
.RS
.TP
Adds a framework directory to the head of an include file search path.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR  Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the name for the framework directory.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not add a framework directory to the head of an include file search path.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option adds a framework directory to the head of an include file search path.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-f66
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to apply FORTRAN 66 semantics.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler applies Fortran 95 semantics.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to apply FORTRAN 66 semantics when interpreting language features. This causes the following to occur:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
DO loops are always executed at least once
.IP \(bu 2
FORTRAN 66 EXTERNAL statement syntax and semantics are allowed
.IP \(bu 2
If the OPEN statement STATUS specifier is omitted, the default changes to STATUS=\[aq]NEW\[aq] instead of STATUS=\[aq]UNKNOWN\[aq]
.IP \(bu 2
If the OPEN statement BLANK specifier is omitted, the default changes to BLANK=\[aq]ZERO\[aq] instead of BLANK=\[aq]NULL\[aq]
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-f77rtl
.TP
.B
\-nof77rtl
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to use the run\-time behavior of FORTRAN 77.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nof77rtl
.NL
The compiler uses the run\-time behavior of Intel(R) Fortran.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to use the run\-time behavior of FORTRAN 77.
.NL
.PP
Specifying this option controls the following run\-time behavior:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
When the unit is not connected to a file, some INQUIRE specifiers will return different values:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
NUMBER= returns 0
.IP \(bu 2
ACCESS= returns \[aq]UNKNOWN\[aq]
.IP \(bu 2
BLANK= returns \[aq]UNKNOWN\[aq]
.IP \(bu 2
FORM= returns \[aq]UNKNOWN\[aq]
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
PAD= defaults to \[aq]NO\[aq] for formatted input.
.IP \(bu 2
NAMELIST and list\-directed input of character strings must be delimited by apostrophes or quotes.
.IP \(bu 2
When processing NAMELIST input:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Column 1 of each record is skipped.
.IP \(bu 2
The \[aq]$\[aq] or \[aq]&\[aq] that appears prior to the group\-name must appear in column 2 of the input record.
.RE
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Fa[filename|dir]
.RS
.TP
Specifies that an assembly listing file
should be generated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the assembly listing file.
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the directory where the file should be placed.
It can include 
\fIfilename\fR.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No assembly listing file is produced.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that an assembly listing file
should be generated (optionally named 
\fIfilename\fR).
.NL
.PP
If 
\fIfilename\fR is not
specified, the file name will be the name of the source file with an extension
of 
.asm; the file is
placed in the current directory.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-S
.NL
.PP
Windows: 
/S, 
/asmfile (this is a deprecated option) 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-falias
.TP
.B
\-fno\-alias
.RS
.TP
Specifies whether
or not a procedure call may have hidden aliases of local variables not supplied
as actual arguments.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-alias 
.NL
Procedure calls do not alias local variables. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This
option specifies whether or not the compiler can assume that during a procedure
call, local variables in the caller that are not present in the actual argument
list and not visible by host association, are not referenced or redefined due
to hidden aliasing. The Fortran standard generally prohibits such aliasing. 
.NL
.PP
If you
specify 
\-falias (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Oa\- (Windows*), aliasing during a procedure call is assumed;
this can possibly affect performance. 
.NL
.PP
If you
specify 
\-fno\-alias or 
/Oa (the default), aliasing during a procedure call is not
assumed. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-falign\-functions[=n]
.TP
.B
\-fno\-align\-functions
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to align 
procedures on an
optimal byte boundary. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional positive integer scalar initialization expression
indicating the number of bytes for the minimum alignment boundary. It tells the
compiler to align 
procedures on a power\-of\-2 byte boundary.
If you do not specify 
\fIn\fR, the compiler aligns the start of 
procedures on 16\-byte boundaries.
.IP
The 
\fIn\fR must be a positive integer less than or equal to
4096. If you specify a value that is not a power of 2, 
\fIn\fR will be rounded up to the nearest power of 2. For
example, if 23 is specified for 
\fIn\fR, 
procedures will be aligned on 32 byte
boundaries.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-align\-functions
.NL
The compiler aligns 
procedures on 2\-byte boundaries. This is
the same as specifying 
\-falign\-functions=2
(Linux* and OS X*). 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to align 
procedures on an
optimal byte boundary. If you do not specify 
\fIn\fR, the compiler
aligns the start of 
procedures on 16\-byte
boundaries. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-falign\-loops[=n]
.TP
.B
\-fno\-align\-loops
.RS
.TP
Aligns loops to a power\-of\-two byte
boundary. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
n
.NL
Is the optional number of bytes for the minimum alignment boundary. It
must be a power of 2 between 1 and 4096, such as 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128,
and so on. 
.IP
If you specify 1 for 
n, no
alignment is performed; this is the same as specifying the negative form of the
option. 
.IP
If you do not specify 
n, the
default alignment is 16 bytes. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-align\-loops
or 
/Qalign\-loops\-
.NL
No special loop alignment is performed. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option aligns loops to a power\-of\-two boundary. This alignment may
improve performance. 
.NL
.PP
It can be affected by the 
directives CODE_ALIGN and
ATTRIBUTES CODE_ALIGN. 
.NL
.PP
If code is compiled with the 
\-falign\-loop=m (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qalign\-loop:m (Windows*) option and a CODE_ALIGN:n directive
precedes a loop, the loop is aligned on a MAX (m, n) byte boundary. If a
procedure has the CODE_ALIGN:k attribute and a CODE_ALIGN:n directive precedes
a loop, then both the procedure and the loop are aligned on a MAX (k, n) byte
boundary. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-falign\-stack=mode (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler the stack alignment to use on entry to routines. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on IA\-32 architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fImode\fR
.NL
Is the method to use for stack alignment.  Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
assume\-4\-byte
Tells the compiler to assume the stack is aligned on 4\-byte boundaries. The compiler can dynamically adjust the stack to 16\-byte alignment if needed. 
.TP 15
maintain\-16\-byte
Tells the compiler to not assume any specific stack alignment, but attempt to maintain alignment in case the stack is already aligned. The compiler can dynamically align the stack if needed. This setting is compatible with gcc. 
.TP 15
assume\-16\-byte
Tells the compiler to assume the stack is aligned on 16\-byte boundaries and to continue to maintain 16\-byte alignment. This setting is compatible with gcc. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-falign\-stack=assume\-16\-byte
.NL
The compiler assumes the stack is aligned on 16\-byte boundaries and continues to maintain 16\-byte alignment.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler the stack alignment to use on entry to routines.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fast
.RS
.TP
Maximizes speed across the entire
program. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The optimizations that maximize speed are not
enabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option maximizes speed across the entire program. 
.NL
.PP
It sets the following options: 
.NL
.PP
On OS X* systems: 
\-ipo, 
\-mdynamic\-no\-pic, 
\-O3, 
\-no\-prec\-div, 
\-fp\-model fast=2, and 
\-xHost On Windows* systems: 
/O3, 
/Qipo, 
/Qprec\-div\-, 
/fp:fast=2, and 
/QxHost On Linux* systems: 
\-ipo, 
\-O3, 
\-no\-prec\-div, 
\-static, 
\-fp\-model fast=2, and 
\-xHost On Intel(R) 64 architecture\-based
systems targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner):
[Q]ipo, 
O3, 
\-no\-prec\-div (Linux*) or 
/Qprec\-div\- (Windows*), 
\-fp\-model fast=2 (Linux*) or 
/fp:fast=2 (Windows*) 
.NL
.PP
When option 
fast is specified, you
can override the 
[Q]xHost option setting
by specifying a different processor\-specific 
[Q]x option on the
command line. However, the last option specified on the command line takes
precedence. 
.NL
.PP
For example: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* systems, if you specify option 
\-fast \-xSSE3, option 
\-xSSE3 takes effect.
However, if you specify 
\-xSSE3 \-fast, option 
\-xHost takes effect. 
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems, if you specify option 
/fast /QxSSE3,
option/QxSSE3 takes
effect. However, if you specify 
/QxSSE3 /fast, option 
/QxHost takes effect. 
.PP
For implications on non\-Intel processors, refer to the 
[Q]xHost documentation. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Option 
fast sets some
aggressive optimizations that may not be appropriate for all applications. The
resulting executable may not run on processor types different from the one on
which you compile. You should make sure that you understand the individual
optimization options that are enabled by option 
fast. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fast\-transcendentals
.TP
.B
\-no\-fast\-transcendentals
.RS
.TP
Enables the compiler to replace calls to
transcendental functions with faster but less precise implementations.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
depends on the setting
of \-fp\-model (Linux* and OS X*)
.NL
If you do not specify option 
\-[no\-]fast\-transcendentals:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The default is ON if option 
\-fp\-model fast is specified or is in effect. 
.IP \(bu 2
The default is OFF if a value\-safe setting is
specified for 
\-fp\-model (such as "precise", "source", etc.). 
.RE
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the compiler to replace calls to
transcendental functions with implementations that may be faster but less
precise. 
.NL
.PP
It allows the compiler to perform certain optimizations
on transcendental functions, such as replacing individual calls to sine in a
loop with a single call to a less precise vectorized sine library routine. 
.NL
.PP
This option does not affect explicit Short Vector Math
Library (SVML) intrinsics. It only affects scalar calls to the standard math
library routines.
.NL
.PP
You cannot use option 
fast\-transcendentals with option 
fp\-model strict. 
.NL
.PP
This option determines the setting for the maximum allowable relative error
for math library function results (max\-error) if none of the following options
are specified:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows*)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-precision (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qimf\-precision (Windows)
.PP
This option enables extra optimization that only applies
to Intel(R) processors.
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fasynchronous\-unwind\-tables
.TP
.B
\-fno\-asynchronous\-unwind\-tables
.RS
.TP
Determines whether unwind information is precise at an instruction boundary or at a call boundary. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Intel(R) 64 architecture: \-fasynchronous\-unwind\-tables
.NL
The unwind table generated is precise at  an instruction boundary, enabling accurate unwinding at any instruction.
.TP 18
IA\-32 architecture: \-fno\-asynchronous\-unwind\-tables
.NL
The unwind table generated is precise at call boundaries only.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether unwind information is precise at an instruction boundary or at a call boundary. The compiler generates an unwind table in DWARF2 or DWARF3 format, depending on which format is supported on your system.
.NL
.PP
If \-fno\-asynchronous\-unwind\-tables is specified, the unwind table is precise at call boundaries only. In this case, the compiler will avoid creating unwind tables for routines such as the following:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
A C++ routine that does not declare objects with destructors and does not contain calls to routines that might throw an exception.
.IP \(bu 2
A C/C++ or Fortran routine compiled without \-fexceptions, and on Intel(R) 64 architecture, without \-traceback.
.IP \(bu 2
A C/C++ or Fortran routine compiled with \-fexceptions that does not contain calls to routines that might throw an exception.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fcode\-asm
.RS
.TP
Produces an assembly listing with machine code annotations.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No machine code annotations appear in the assembly listing file, if one is produced.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option produces an assembly listing file with machine code annotations.
.NL
.PP
The assembly listing file shows the hex machine instructions at the beginning of each line of assembly code. The file cannot be assembled; the file name is the name of the source file with an extension of .cod.
.NL
.PP
To use this option, you must also specify option \-S, which causes an assembly listing to be generated.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fcommon
.TP
.B
\-fno\-common
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler treats
common symbols as global definitions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fcommon
.NL
The compiler does not treat common symbols as
global definitions. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler treats common
symbols as global definitions and to allocate memory for each symbol at compile
time. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
\-fno\-common tells the
compiler to treat common symbols as global definitions. When using this option,
you can only have a common variable declared in one module; otherwise, a link
time error will occur for multiple defined symbols. 
.NL
.PP
On OS X,
if a library built with the 
ar utility contains objects with Fortran module data but
no executable functions, the symbols corresponding to the module data may not
be resolved when an object referencing them is linked against the library. You
can work around this by compiling with option 
\-fno\-common. For more information, see the article titled: 
ld: symbol(s) not found when linking library containing no executable
functions, which is located in
https://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/ld\-symbols\-not\-found\-when\-linking\-library\-containing\-no\-executable\-functions
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-feliminate\-unused\-debug\-types
.TP
.B
\-fno\-eliminate\-unused\-debug\-types
.RS
.TP
Controls the debug information emitted for types declared in a compilation unit.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-feliminate\-unused\-debug\-types 
.NL
The compiler emits debug information only for types that are actually used by a variable/parameter/etc..
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the debug information emitted for types declared in a compilation unit.
.NL
.PP
If you specify \-fno\-eliminate\-unused\-debug\-types (Linux and OS X) or /Qeliminate\-unused\-debug\-types\-, it will cause the compiler to emit debug information for all types present in the sources. This option may cause a large increase in the size of the debug information.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fexceptions
.TP
.B
\-fno\-exceptions
.RS
.TP
Enables exception handling table generation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-exceptions
.NL
Exception handling table generation is disabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables C++ exception handling table generation, preventing Fortran routines in mixed\-language applications from interfering with exception handling between C++ routines. The \-fno\-exceptions option disables C++ exception handling table generation, resulting in smaller code. When this option is used, any use of C++ exception handling constructs (such as try blocks and throw statements) when a Fortran routine is in the call chain will produce an error. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ffat\-lto\-objects (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-fno\-fat\-lto\-objects (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Determines whether a fat link\-time optimization (LTO) object, containing both intermediate language and object code, is generated during an interprocedural optimization compilation (\-c ipo).
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-ffat\-lto\-objects
.NL
When c ipo is specified, the compiler generates a fat link\-time optimization (LTO) object that has both a true object and a discardable intermediate language section.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether a fat link time optimization (LTO) object, containing both intermediate language and object code, is generated during an interprocedural optimization compilation (\-c ipo).
.NL
.PP
During an interprocedural optimization compilation (\-c ipo), the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify \-ffat\-lto\-objects, the compiler generates a fat link\-time optimization (LTO) object that has both a true object and a discardable intermediate language section.  This enables both link\-time optimization (LTO) linking and normal linking.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify \-fno\-fat\-lto\-objects, the compiler generates a fat link\-time optimization (LTO) object that only has a discardable intermediate language section; no true object is generated. This option may improve compilation time.
.PP
Note that these files will be inserted into archives in the form in which they were created.
.NL
.PP
This option is provided for compatibility with gcc. For more information about this option, see the gcc documentation.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Intel\[aq]s intermediate language representation is not compatible with gccs intermediate language representation.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ffnalias
.TP
.B
\-fno\-fnalias
.RS
.TP
Determines whether aliasing is assumed
within functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-ffnalias 
.NL
Aliasing is assumed within functions.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether aliasing is assumed within
functions. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-fno\-fnalias, aliasing is
not assumed within functions, but it is assumed across calls. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-ffnalias, aliasing is
assumed within functions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-absolute\-error=value[:funclist]
.RS
.TP
Defines the maximum allowable absolute error for math library function results.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIvalue\fR
.NL
Is a positive, floating\-point number. Errors in math library function results may exceed the maximum relative error (max\-error) setting if the absolute\-error is less than or equal to \fIvalue\fR.
.IP
The format for the number is [digits] [.digits] [ { e | E
}[sign]digits]
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library functions to which the attribute should be applied. If you specify more than one function, they must be separated with commas.  Precision\-specific variants like sin and sinf are considered different functions, so you would need to use \-fimf\-absolute\-error=0.00001:sin,sinf (or /Qimf\-absolute\-error:0.00001:sin,sinf) to specify the maximum allowable absolute error for both the single\-precision and double\-precision sine functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote single\-precision divides, symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol /l to denote extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision divides. For example you can specify  \-fimf\-absolute\-error=0.00001:/ or /Qimf\-absolute\-error: 0.00001:/.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Zero ("0")
.NL
An absolute\-error setting of 0 means that the function is bound by the relative error setting. This is the default behavior.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option defines the maximum allowable absolute error for math library function results.
.NL
.PP
This option can improve run\-time performance, but it may decrease the accuracy of results.
.NL
.PP
This option only affects functions that have
zero as a possible return value, such as log, sin, asin,
etc.
.NL
.PP
The relative error requirements for a
particular function are determined by options that set the maximum relative error (max\-error)
and precision. The return value from a function must have a
relative error less than the max\-error value, or an absolute error
less than the absolute\-error value.
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain
precision, specify the function name of the precision that you
need. For example, if you want double precision, you can specify
:sin; if you want single precision, you can specify :sinf, as
in \-fimf\-absolute\-error=0.00001:sin or
/Qimf\-absolute\-error:0.00001:sin, or \-fimf\-absolute\-error=0.00001:sqrtf or
/Qimf\-absolute\-error:0.00001:sqrtf.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then
the setting applies to all functions (and to all precisions).
However, as soon as you specify an individual function name, the
setting applies only to the function of corresponding
precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the single\-precision sine
function, sin applies only to the
double\-precision sine
function, sinl applies only to the
extended\-precision sine
function, etc.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML (Short Vector Math Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors.
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=bits[:funclist]
.RS
.TP
Defines the relative error for math
library function results, including division and square root.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIbits\fR
.NL
Is a positive, floating\-point number indicating the
number of correct bits the compiler should use.
.IP
The format for the number is [digits] [.digits] [
{ e | E }[sign]digits].
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library functions to which the
attribute should be applied. If you specify more than one function, they must
be separated with commas. Precision\-specific variants like sin and sinf are
considered different functions, so you would need to use 
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=23:sin,sinf (or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits:23:sin,sinf) to specify the relative
error for both the single\-precision and double\-precision sine functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote single\-precision divides,
symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol /l to denote
extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision divides. For
example you can specify 
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=10.0:/f or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits:10.0:/f.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fimf\-precision=medium or
/Qimf\-precision:medium
.NL
The compiler uses medium precision when calling
math library functions. Note that other options can affect precision; see below
for details.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option defines the relative error, measured by the number of correct
bits, for math library function results.
.NL
.PP
The following formula is used to convert bits
into ulps: ulps = 2p\-1\-bits, where p is the number of the target
format mantissa bits (24, 53, and 113 for single, double, and quad precision,
respectively).
.NL
.PP
This option can affect run\-time performance and the accuracy of results.
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain
precision, specify the function name of the precision that you need. For
example, if you want double precision, you can specify :sin; if you want single
precision, you can specify :sinf, as in the following: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=23:sinf,cosf,logf or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits:23:sinf,cosf,logf
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=52:sqrt,/,trunc or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits:52:sqrt,/,trunc
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits=10:powf or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits:10:powf
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then the setting applies to all
functions (and to all precisions). However, as soon as you specify an
individual function name, the setting applies only to the function of
corresponding precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the
single\-precision sine function, sin applies only to the double\-precision sine
function, sinl applies only to the extended\-precision sine function, etc. 
.NL
.PP
There are three options you can use to express the maximum relative error.
They are as follows:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-precision (Linux* and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-precision (Windows*)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows*)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows)
.PP
If more than one of these options are specified, the default value for the
maximum relative error is determined by the last one specified on the command
line.
.NL
.PP
If none of the above options are specified, the default values for the
maximum relative error are determined by the setting of the following options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]fast\-transcendentals
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-div
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-sqrt 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fp\-model (Linux and OS X) or 
/fp (Windows)
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML (Short Vector Math
Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for
non\-Intel microprocessors.
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency=value[:funclist]
.RS
.TP
Ensures that the math library functions
produce consistent results across different microarchitectural implementations
of the same architecture.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIvalue\fR
.NL
Is one of the logical values "true" or "false".
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library
functions to which the attribute should be applied. If you specify more than
one function, they must be separated with commas. Precision\-specific variants
like sin and sinf are considered different functions, so you would need to use 
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency=true:sin,sinf (or 
/Qimf\-arch\-consistency:true:sin,sinf) to specify
consistent results for both the single\-precision and double\-precision sine
functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote
single\-precision divides, symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol
/l to denote extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision
divides. For example you can specify 
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency=true:/ or 
/Qimf\-arch\-consistency:true:/.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
false
.NL
Implementations of some math library functions may
produce slightly different results on implementations of the same architecture.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option ensures that the math library functions produce consistent
results across different microarchitectural implementations of the same
architecture (for example, across different microarchitectural implementations
of IA\-32 architecture). Consistency is only guaranteed for a single binary.
Consistency is not guaranteed across different architectures. For example,
consistency is not guaranteed across IA\-32 architecture and Intel(R) 64
architecture.
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain
precision, specify the function name of the precision that you need. For
example, if you want double precision, you can specify :sin; if you want single
precision, you can specify :sinf, as in 
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency=true:sin or
/Qimf\-arch\-consistency:true:sin, or 
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency=false:sqrtf or 
/Qimf\-arch\-consistency:false:sqrtf.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then the setting applies to all
functions (and to all precisions). However, as soon as you specify an
individual function name, the setting applies only to the function of
corresponding precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the
single\-precision sine function, sin applies only to the double\-precision sine
function, sinl applies only to the extended\-precision sine function, etc. 
.NL
.PP
The 
\-fimf\-arch\-consistency (Linux* and OS X*) and 
/Qimf\-arch\-consistency (Windows*) option may decrease run\-time
performance, but the option will provide bit\-wise consistent results on all
Intel(R) processors and compatible, non\-Intel processors, regardless of
micro\-architecture. This option may not provide bit\-wise consistent results
between different architectures, for example, between IA\-32 and Intel(R) 64
architectures, or between Intel(R)
64 architecture and Intel(R) MIC Architecture.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML (Short Vector Math
Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for
non\-Intel microprocessors.
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=classlist[:funclist]
.RS
.TP
Indicates the input arguments domain on which math functions must provide correct results. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIclasslist\fR
.NL
Is one of the following: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
One or more of the following floating\-point value classes you can exclude from the function domain without affecting the correctness of your program. The supported class names are:
.RS
extremes
This class is for values which do not lie within the usual domain of arguments for a given function.
nans
This means "x=Nan".
infinities
This means "x=infinities".
denormals
This means "x=denormal".
zeros
This means "x=0".
.RE
Each \fIclasslist\fR element corresponds to a power of two. The exclusion attribute is the logical or of the associated powers of two (that is, a bitmask). 
The following shows the current mapping from \fIclasslist\fR mnemonics to numerical values:
.TP 18
extremes
.NL
1
.NL
.TP 18
nans
.NL
2
.NL
.TP 18
infinities
.NL
4
.NL
.TP 18
denormals
.NL
8
.NL
.TP 18
zeros
.NL
16
.NL
.TP 18
none
.NL
0
.NL
.TP 18
all
.NL
31
.NL
.TP 18
common
.NL
15
.NL
.TP 18
other combinations
.NL
bitwise OR of the used values
.NL
You must specify the integer value that corresponds to the class that you want to exclude. 
Note that on excluded values, unexpected results may occur.
.IP \(bu 2
One of the following short\-hand tokens:
.RS
none
This means that none of the supported classes are excluded from the domain. To indicate this token, specify 0, as in \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=0 (or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:0).
all
This means that all of the supported classes are excluded from the domain. To indicate this token, specify 31, as in \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=31 (or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:31).
common
This is the same as specifying extremes,nans,infinities,denormals. To indicate this token, specify 15 (1 + 2+ 4 + 8), as in \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=15 (or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:15)
.RE
.RE
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library functions to which the attribute should be applied. If you specify more than one function, they must be separated with commas.  Precision\-specific variants like sin and sinf are considered different functions, so you would need to use \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=4:sin,sinf (or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:4:sin,sinf) to specify infinities for both the single\-precision and double\-precision sine functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote single\-precision divides, symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol /l to denote extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision divides. For example, you can specify:
.IP
\-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=4 or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:4
.IP
\-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=5:/,powf or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:5:/,powf
.IP
\-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=23:log,logf,/,sin,cosf or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:23:log,logf,/,sin,cosf
.IP
If you dont specify argument \fIfunclist\fR, the domain restrictions apply to all math library functions.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Zero ("0")
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when calling math library functions.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option indicates the input arguments domain on which math functions must provide correct results. It specifies that your program will function correctly if the functions specified in \fIfunclist\fR do not produce standard conforming results on the number classes.
.NL
.PP
This option can affect run\-time performance and the accuracy of results.  As more classes are excluded, faster code sequences can be used.
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain precision, specify the function name of the precision that you need. For example, if you want double precision, you can specify :sin; if you want single precision, you can specify :sinf, as in \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=denormals:sin  or /Qimf\-domain\-exclusion:denormals:sin, or \-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=extremes:sqrtf or /Qimf domain\-exclusion:extremes:sqrtf.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then the setting applies to all functions (and to all precisions). However, as soon as you specify an individual function name, the setting applies only to the function of corresponding precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the single\-precision sine function, sin applies only to the double\-precision sine function, sinl applies only to the extended\-precision sine function, etc.  
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML (Short Vector Math Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors.
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-max\-error=ulps[:funclist]
.RS
.TP
Defines the maximum allowable relative
error for math library function results, including division and square root.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIulps\fR
.NL
Is a positive, floating\-point number indicating the
maximum allowable relative error the compiler should use. 
.IP
The format for the number is [digits] [.digits] [ {
e | E }[sign]digits].
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library functions to which the
attribute should be applied. If you specify more than one function, they must
be separated with commas. Precision\-specific variants like sin and sinf are
considered different functions, so you would need to use 
\-fimf\-max\-error=4.0:sin,sinf (or 
/Qimf\-max\-error=4.0:sin,sinf) to specify the maximum
allowable relative error for both the single\-precision and double\-precision
sine functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote single\-precision divides,
symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol /l to denote
extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision divides. For
example you can specify 
\-fimf\-max\-error=4.0:/ or 
/Qimf\-max\-error:4.0:/.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fimf\-precision=medium or
/Qimf\-precision:medium
.NL
The compiler uses medium precision when calling
math library functions. Note that other options can affect precision; see below
for details.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option defines the maximum allowable relative error, measured in ulps,
for math library function results. 
.NL
.PP
This option can affect run\-time performance and the accuracy of results.
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain
precision, specify the function name of the precision that you need. For
example, if you want double precision, you can specify :sin; if you want single
precision, you can specify :sinf, as in 
\-fimf\-max\-error=4.0:sin or 
/Qimf\-max\-error:4.0:sin, or 
\-fimf\-max\-error=4.0:sqrtf or 
/Qimf\-max\-error:4.0:sqrtf.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then the setting applies to all
functions (and to all precisions). However, as soon as you specify an
individual function name, the setting applies only to the function of
corresponding precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the
single\-precision sine function, sin applies only to the double\-precision sine
function, sinl applies only to the extended\-precision sine function, etc. 
.NL
.PP
There are three options you can use to express the maximum relative error.
They are as follows:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-precision (Linux* and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-precision (Windows*)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows*)
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows)
.PP
If more than one of these options are specified, the default value for the
maximum relative error is determined by the last one specified on the command
line.
.NL
.PP
If none of the above options are specified, the default values for the
maximum relative error are determined by the setting of the following options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]fast\-transcendentals
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-div
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-sqrt 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fp\-model (Linux and OS X) or 
/fp (Windows)
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML (Short Vector Math
Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for
non\-Intel microprocessors.
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fimf\-precision[=value[:funclist]]
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify a level of accuracy
(precision) that the compiler should use when determining which math library
functions to use. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIvalue\fR
.NL
Is one of the following values denoting the desired
accuracy: 
.RS
.TP 15
high
This is equivalent to
max\-error = 1.0. 
.TP 15
medium
This is equivalent to max\-error = 4; this is
the default setting if the option is specified and 
\fIvalue\fR is omitted. 
.TP 15
low
This is equivalent to accuracy\-bits = 11 for
single\-precision functions; accuracy\-bits = 26 for double\-precision functions. 
.RE
.IP
In the above explanations, max\-error means option 
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows*); accuracy\-bits means option 
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows*). 
.TP 18
\fIfunclist\fR
.NL
Is an optional list of one or more math library functions to which the
attribute should be applied. If you specify more than one function, they must
be separated with commas. Precision\-specific variants like sin and sinf are
considered different functions, so you would need to use 
\-fimf\-precision=high:sin,sinf (or 
/Qimf\-precision:high:sin,sinf) to specify high precision
for both the single\-precision and double\-precision sine functions. 
.IP
You also can specify the symbol /f to denote single\-precision divides,
symbol / to denote double\-precision divides, symbol /l to denote
extended\-precision divides, and symbol /q to denote quad\-precision divides. For
example you can specify 
\-fimf\-precision=low:/ or 
/Qimf\-precision:low:/ and 
\-fimf\-precision=low:/f or 
/Qimf\-precision:low:/f. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
medium
.NL
The compiler uses medium precision when calling
math library functions. Note that other options can affect precision; see below
for details. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify a level of accuracy (precision) that the
compiler should use when determining which math library functions to use. 
.NL
.PP
This option can be used to improve run\-time performance if reduced accuracy
is sufficient for the application, or it can be used to increase the accuracy
of math library functions selected by the compiler. 
.NL
.PP
In general, using a lower precision can improve run\-time performance and
using a higher precision may reduce run\-time performance. 
.NL
.PP
If you need to define the accuracy for a math function of a certain
precision, specify the function name of the precision that you need. For
example, if you want double precision, you can specify :sin; if you want single
precision, you can specify :sinf, as in 
\-fimf\-precision=low:sin or
/Qimf\-precision:low:sin, or 
\-fimf\-precision=high:sqrtf or 
/Qimf\-precision:high:sqrtf. 
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify any function names, then the setting applies to all
functions (and to all precisions). However, as soon as you specify an
individual function name, the setting applies only to the function of
corresponding precision. So, for example, sinf applies only to the
single\-precision sine function, sin applies only to the double\-precision sine
function, sinl applies only to the extended\-precision sine function, etc. 
.NL
.PP
There are three options you can use to express the maximum relative error.
They are as follows: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-precision (Linux* and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-precision (Windows*) 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows*) 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux and OS X*)
or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows) 
.PP
If more than one of these options are specified, the default value for the
maximum relative error is determined by the last one specified on the command
line. 
.NL
.PP
If none of the above options are specified, the default values for the
maximum relative error are determined by the setting of the following options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]fast\-transcendentals
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-div
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]prec\-sqrt 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fp\-model (Linux and OS X) or 
/fp (Windows) 
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in libraries LIBM (Math Library) and SVML
(Short Vector Math Library) are more highly optimized for Intel(R)
microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-finline
.TP
.B
\-fno\-inline
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to inline functions declared with !DIR$ ATTRIBUTES FORCEINLINE.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-inline
.NL
The compiler does not inline functions declared with !DIR$ ATTRIBUTES FORCEINLINE.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to inline functions declared with !DIR$ ATTRIBUTES FORCEINLINE.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-inline\-level
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-finline\-functions
.TP
.B
\-fno\-inline\-functions
.RS
.TP
Enables function inlining for single file compilation.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-finline\-functions
.NL
Interprocedural optimizations occur. However, if you specify \-O0, the default is OFF.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables function inlining for single file compilation. 
.NL
.PP
It enables the compiler to perform inline function expansion for calls to functions defined within the current source file.
.NL
.PP
The compiler applies a heuristic to perform the function expansion. To specify the size of the function to be expanded, use the \-finline\-limit option.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-inline\-level=2
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-finline\-limit=n
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify the maximum size of a function to be inlined.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Must be an integer greater than or equal to zero. It is the maximum number of lines the function can have to be considered for inlining.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when inlining functions.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify the maximum size of a function to be inlined. The compiler inlines smaller functions, but this option lets you inline large functions. For example, to indicate a large function, you could specify 100 or 1000 for \fIn\fR.
.NL
.PP
Note that parts of functions cannot be inlined, only whole functions.
.NL
.PP
This option is a modification of the \-finline\-functions option, whose behavior occurs by default.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-finstrument\-functions
.TP
.B
\-fno\-instrument\-functions
.RS
.TP
Determines whether 
routine entry and exit
points are instrumented.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-instrument\-functions 
.NL
Routine entry and exit points are not
instrumented.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether 
routine entry and exit
points are instrumented. It may increase execution time.
.NL
.PP
The following profiling functions are called with the
address of the current 
routine and the address
of where the 
routine was called (its
"call site"):
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
This function is called upon 
routine entry:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.IP
void __cyg_profile_func_enter (void *this_fn,
.IP
void *call_site);
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
This function is called upon 
routine exit:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.IP
void __cyg_profile_func_exit (void *this_fn,
.IP
void *call_site);
.RE
.PP
These functions can be used to gather more information,
such as profiling information or timing information. Note that it is the user\[aq]s
responsibility to provide these profiling functions.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-finstrument\-functions
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinstrument\-functions
(Windows*), 
routine inlining is
disabled. If you specify 
\-fno\-instrument\-functions
or 
/Qinstrument\-functions\-,
inlining is not disabled.
.NL
.PP
This option is provided for compatibility with gcc.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fixed
.TP
.B
\-nofixed
.RS
.TP
Specifies source files are in fixed format.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The source file format is determined from the file extension.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies source files are in fixed format. If this option is not specified, format is determined as follows:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Files with an extension of .f90, .F90, or .i90 are free\-format source files.
.IP \(bu 2
Files with an extension of .f, .for, .FOR, .ftn, .FTN, .fpp, .FPP, or .i are fixed\-format files.
.PP
Note that on Linux* and OS X* systems, file names and file extensions are case sensitive.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-FI
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fkeep\-static\-consts
.TP
.B
\-fno\-keep\-static\-consts
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to preserve allocation
of variables that are not referenced in the source.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-keep\-static\-consts
.NL
If a variable is never referenced in a routine, the
variable is discarded unless optimizations are disabled by option 
\-O0 (Linux* and OS
X*).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to preserve allocation of
variables that are not referenced in the source.
.NL
.PP
The negated form can be useful when optimizations are
enabled to reduce the memory usage of static data.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fltconsistency
.TP
.B
\-nofltconsistency
.RS
.TP
Enables improved floating\-point
consistency. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nofltconsistency
.NL
Improved floating\-point consistency is not enabled.
This setting provides better accuracy and run\-time performance at the expense
of less consistent floating\-point results. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables improved floating\-point consistency
and may slightly reduce execution speed. It limits floating\-point optimizations
and maintains declared precision. It also disables inlining of math library
functions. 
.NL
.PP
Floating\-point operations are not reordered and the
result of each floating\-point operation is stored in the target variable rather
than being kept in the floating\-point processor for use in a subsequent
calculation. 
.NL
.PP
For example, the compiler can change floating\-point
division computations into multiplication by the reciprocal of the denominator.
This change can alter the results of floating\-point division computations
slightly. 
.NL
.PP
Floating\-point intermediate results are kept in full 80
bits internal precision. Additionally, all spills/reloads of the X87 floating
point registers are done using the internal formats; this prevents accidental
loss of precision due to spill/reload behavior over which you have no control. 
.NL
.PP
Specifying this option has the following effects on
program compilation: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Floating\-point user variables are not assigned to
registers. 
.IP \(bu 2
Floating\-point arithmetic comparisons conform to IEEE
754. 
.IP \(bu 2
The exact operations specified in the code are
performed. For example, division is never changed to multiplication by the
reciprocal. 
.IP \(bu 2
The compiler performs floating\-point operations in
the order specified without reassociation. 
.IP \(bu 2
The compiler does not perform constant folding on
floating\-point values. Constant folding also eliminates any multiplication by
1, division by 1, and addition or subtraction of 0. For example, code that adds
0.0 to a number is executed exactly as written. Compile\-time floating\-point
arithmetic is not performed to ensure that floating\-point exceptions are also
maintained. 
.IP \(bu 2
Whenever an expression is spilled, it is spilled as
80 bits (extended precision), not 64 bits (DOUBLE PRECISION). When assignments
to type REAL and DOUBLE PRECISION are made, the precision is rounded from 80
bits down to 32 bits (REAL) or 64 bits (DOUBLE PRECISION). When you do not
specify 
/fltconsistency, the extra
bits of precision are not always rounded away before the variable is reused. 
.IP \(bu 2
Even if vectorization is enabled by the 
[Q]x option, the compiler
does not vectorize reduction loops (loops computing the dot product) and loops
with mixed precision types. Similarly, the compiler does not enable certain
loop transformations. For example, the compiler does not transform reduction
loops to perform partial summation or loop interchange. 
.PP
This option causes performance degradation relative to
using default floating\-point optimization flags. 
.NL
.PP
On Windows systems, an alternative is to use the 
/Qprec option, which
should provide better than default floating\-point precision while still
delivering good floating\-point performance. 
.NL
.PP
The recommended method to control the semantics of
floating\-point calculations is to use option 
\-fp\-model (Linux* and OS
X*) or 
/fp (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
fltconsistency
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-mieee\-fp
.TP 18
nofltconsistency
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-mno\-ieee\-fp
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fma
.TP
.B
\-no\-fma
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler
generates fused multiply\-add (FMA) instructions if such instructions exist on
the target processor. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fma 
.NL
If the instructions exist on the target processor,
the compiler generates fused multiply\-add (FMA) instructions. 
.IP
However, if you specify 
\-fp\-model strict
(Linux* and OS X*), but do not explicitly specify 
\-fma, the
default is 
\-no\-fma. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler generates fused multiply\-add
(FMA) instructions if such instructions exist on the target processor. When the
[Q]fma option is specified, the compiler may generate FMA
instructions for combining multiply and add operations. When the negative form
of the 
[Q]fma option is specified, the compiler must generate
separate multiply and add instructions with intermediate rounding. 
.NL
.PP
This option has no effect unless setting CORE\-AVX2 or higher is specified
for option 
[Q]x, 
\-march (Linux and OS X), or 
/arch (Windows). 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fmath\-errno
.TP
.B
\-fno\-math\-errno
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler that errno can be reliably tested after calls to standard math library functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-math\-errno
.NL
The compiler assumes that the program does not test errno after calls to standard math library functions.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to assume that the program tests errno after calls to math library functions. This restricts optimization because it causes the compiler to treat most math functions as having side effects.
.NL
.PP
Option \-fno\-math\-errno tells the compiler to assume that the program does not test errno after calls to math library functions. This frequently allows the compiler to generate faster code. Floating\-point code that relies on IEEE exceptions instead of errno to detect errors can safely use this option to improve performance.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fmerge\-constants (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-fno\-merge\-constants (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler and linker attempt to merge identical constants (string constants and floating\-point constants) across compilation units.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fmerge\-constants
.NL
The compiler and linker attempt to merge identical constants across compilation units if the compiler and linker supports it.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler and linker
attempt to merge identical constants (string constants and
floating\-point constants) across compilation units.
.NL
.PP
If you do not want the compiler and linker to
attempt to merge identical constants across compilation units.
specify \-fno\-merge\-constants.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fmerge\-debug\-strings (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-fno\-merge\-debug\-strings (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Causes the compiler to pool strings used in debugging information.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fmerge\-debug\-strings
.NL
The compiler will pool strings used in debugging information.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the compiler to pool strings
used in debugging information. The linker will automatically retain
this pooling.
.NL
.PP
This option can reduce the size of debug
information, but it may produce slightly slower compile and link
times.
.NL
.PP
This option is only turned on by default if you
are using gcc 4.3 or later, where this setting is also the default,
since the generated debug tables require binutils version 2.17 or
later to work reliably.
.NL
.PP
If you do not want the compiler to pool strings
used in debugging information, specify option
\-fno\-merge\-debug\-strings.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fminshared
.RS
.TP
Specifies that a compilation unit is a
component of a main program and should not be linked as part of a shareable
object.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR  Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Source files are compiled together to form a single
object file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that a compilation unit is a
component of a main program and should not be linked as part of a shareable
object.
.NL
.PP
This option allows the compiler to optimize references to
defined symbols without special visibility settings. To ensure that external
and common symbol references are optimized, you need to specify visibility
hidden or protected by using the 
\-fvisibility, 
\-fvisibility\-hidden, or 
\-fvisibility\-protected
option.
.NL
.PP
Also, the compiler does not need to generate
position\-independent code for the main program. It can use absolute addressing,
which may reduce the size of the global offset table (GOT) and may reduce
memory traffic.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fmpc\-privatize (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-fno\-mpc\-privatize (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables privatization of all
static data for the MultiProcessor Computing environment (MPC) unified parallel
runtime.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-mpc\-privatize
.NL
The privatization of all static data for the MPC
unified parallel runtime is disabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables privatization of all static data for the
MultiProcessor Computing environment (MPC) unified parallel runtime. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
\-fmpc\-privatize causes calls to extended thread\-local\-storage
(TLS) resolution, run\-time routines that are not supported on standard Linux*
distributions. 
.NL
.PP
This option requires installation of another product.
For more information, see 
Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer
.TP
.B
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
.RS
.TP
Determines whether EBP is used as a
general\-purpose register in optimizations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Option 
/Oy[\-] is only available
on IA\-32 architecture 
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer 
.NL
EBP is used as a general\-purpose register in
optimizations. However, on Linux* and OS X* systems, the default is 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer if option
\-O0 or 
\-g is specified. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
These options determine whether EBP is used as a
general\-purpose register in optimizations. Options 
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer and 
/Oy allow this use.
Options 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
and 
/Oy\- disallow it. 
.NL
.PP
Some debuggers expect EBP to be used as a stack frame
pointer, and cannot produce a stack backtrace unless this is so. The 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
and 
/Oy\- options direct the
compiler to generate code that maintains and uses EBP as a stack frame pointer
for all functions so that a debugger can still produce a stack backtrace
without doing the following: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
For 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer:
turning off optimizations with 
\-O0
.IP \(bu 2
For 
/Oy\-: turning off 
/O1, 
/O2, or 
/O3 optimizations 
.PP
The 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
option is set when you specify option 
\-O0 or the 
\-g option. The 
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer
option is set when you specify option 
\-O1, 
\-O2, or 
\-O3. 
.NL
.PP
The 
/Oy option is set when
you specify the 
/O1, 
/O2, or 
/O3 option. Option 
/Oy\- is set when you
specify the 
/Od option. 
.NL
.PP
Using the 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
or 
/Oy\- option reduces the
number of available general\-purpose registers by 1, and can result in slightly
less efficient code. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-fp (this is a deprecated
option) 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-foptimize\-sibling\-calls
.TP
.B
\-fno\-optimize\-sibling\-calls
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler optimizes tail recursive calls.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-foptimize\-sibling\-calls
.NL
The compiler optimizes tail recursive calls.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler
optimizes tail recursive calls. It enables conversion of tail recursion into
loops.
.NL
.PP
If you do not want to optimize tail recursive
calls, specify \-fno\-optimize\-sibling\-calls.
.NL
.PP
Tail recursion is a special form of recursion
that doesn\[aq]t use stack space. In tail recursion, a recursive call
is converted to a GOTO statement that returns to the beginning of
the function. In this case, the return value of the recursive call
is only used to be returned. It is not used in another expression.
The recursive function is converted into a loop, which prevents
modification of the stack space used.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fp\-model keyword
.RS
.TP
Controls the semantics of floating\-point
calculations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies the semantics to be used. Possible values
are: 
.RS
.TP 15
precise
Disables
optimizations that are not value\-safe on floating\-point data and rounds
intermediate results to source\-defined precision.
.TP 15
fast[=1|2]
Enables more aggressive optimizations on
floating\-point data. 
.TP 15
consistent
Enables consistent,
reproducible results for different optimization levels or between different
processors of the same architecture. 
.TP 15
strict
Enables precise and except, disables
contractions, and 
enables the property that allows modification of
the floating\-point environment.
.TP 15
source
Rounds intermediate results to source\-defined
precision. 
.TP 15
[no\-]except
(Linux* and OS X*) or except[\-] (Windows* )
Determines whether strict floating\-point
exception semantics are honored. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fp\-model fast=1 
.NL
The compiler uses more aggressive optimizations on
floating\-point calculations. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the semantics of floating\-point
calculations. 
.NL
.PP
The 
\fIkeywords\fR can be
considered in groups: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Group A: 
precise, 
fast, 
consistent, 
strict
.IP \(bu 2
Group B: 
source
.IP \(bu 2
Group C: 
except (or the negative form)
.PP
You can use more than one 
\fIkeyword\fR. However,
the following rules apply: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
You cannot specify 
fast and 
except together in the same
compilation. You can specify any other combination of group A, group B, and
group C. Since 
fast is the default, you must
not specify 
except without a group A or
group B 
\fIkeyword\fR. 
.IP \(bu 2
You should specify only one 
\fIkeyword\fR from
group A and only one 
\fIkeyword\fR from group B. If you try to specify more than
one 
\fIkeyword\fR from
either group A or group B, the last (rightmost) one takes effect. 
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify 
except more than once, the
last (rightmost) one takes effect. 
.PP
The floating\-point (FP) environment is a collection of
registers that control the behavior of FP machine instructions and indicate the
current FP status. The floating\-point environment may include rounding\-mode
controls, exception masks, flush\-to\-zero controls, exception status flags, and
other floating\-point related features.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model precise or 
/fp:precise
.NL
Tells the compiler to strictly adhere to
value\-safe optimizations when implementing floating\-point calculations. It
disables optimizations that can change the result of floating\-point
calculations. 
.TP 18
These semantics ensure the reproducibility of
floating\-point computations for serial code, including code vectorized or
auto\-parallelized by the compiler, but they may slow performance. They do not
ensure value safety or run\-to\-run reproducibility of other parallel code.
Run\-to\-run reproducibility for floating\-point reductions in OpenMP* code may be
obtained for a fixed number of threads through the KMP_DETERMINISTIC_REDUCTION
environment variable. For more information about this environment variable, see
topic "Supported Environment Variables". 
.TP 18
The compiler assumes the default floating\-point
environment; you are not allowed to modify it. 
.TP 18
Note that option
fp\-model precise implies 
fp\-model source and option 
fp:precise implies 
fp:source. 
.TP 18
IA\-32 architecture: Windows:
Double; Linux: Extended; OS X: Extended 
.TP 18
Intel(R) 64 architecture: All
operating systems: Source 
.TP 18
Floating\-point exception semantics are disabled
by default. To enable these semantics, you must also specify 
\-fp\-model
except or 
/fp:except. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model fast[=1|2] or 
/fp:fast[=1|2]
.NL
Tells the compiler to use more aggressive
optimizations when implementing floating\-point calculations. These
optimizations increase speed, 
but may affect the accuracy or reproducibility of
floating\-point computations.
.TP 18
Specifying fast is the same as specifying 
fast=1. 
fast=2 may produce
faster and less accurate results. 
.TP 18
Floating\-point exception semantics are disabled
by default and they cannot be enabled because you cannot specify fast and
except together in the same compilation. To enable exception semantics, you
must explicitly specify another keyword (see other keyword descriptions for
details). 
.TP 18
To enable exception semantics,
you must explicitly specify another keyword (see other keyword descriptions for
details). 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model consistent or 
/fp:consistent
.NL
Tells the compiler to generate code that will give consistent,
reproducible floating\-point results for different optimization levels or
between different processors of the same architecture . 
.TP 18
For more information, see the article titled: Consistency
of Floating\-Point Results using the Intel(R) Compiler, which is located in
http://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/consistency\-of\-floating\-point\-results\-using\-the\-intel\-compiler/
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model strict or 
/fp:strict
.NL
Tells the compiler to strictly adhere to
value\-safe optimizations when implementing floating\-point calculations and
enables floating\-point exception semantics. This is the strictest
floating\-point model. 
.TP 18
The compiler does not assume the default
floating\-point environment; you are allowed to modify it. 
.TP 18
Floating\-point exception semantics can be
disabled by explicitly specifying 
\-fp\-model
no\-except or 
/fp:except\-. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model source or 
/fp:source
.NL
This option causes intermediate results to be
rounded to the precision defined in the source code. It also implies keyword 
precise unless it is
overridden by a keyword from Group A. 
.TP 18
long double: 64\-bit
precision; 80\-bit data type; 15\-bit exponent 
.TP 18
double: 53\-bit
precision; 64\-bit data type; 11\-bit exponent; on Windows systems using IA\-32
architecture, the exponent may be 15\-bit if an x87 register is used to hold the
value. 
.TP 18
float: 24\-bit
precision; 32\-bit data type; 8\-bit exponent 
.TP 18
The compiler assumes the default floating\-point
environment; you are not allowed to modify it. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fp\-model except or 
/fp:except
.NL
Tells the compiler to follow strict
floating\-point exception semantics. 
.NL
.PP
The 
\-fp\-model and 
/fp options determine the setting for the maximum allowable
relative error for math library function results (max\-error) if none of the
following options are specified: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-accuracy\-bits (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qimf\-accuracy\-bits (Windows*) 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-max\-error (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qimf\-max\-error (Windows) 
.IP \(bu 2
\-fimf\-precision (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qimf\-precision (Windows) 
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]fast\-transcendentals
.PP
Option 
\-fp\-model fast (and 
/fp:fast) sets option 
\-fimf\-precision=medium
(/Qimf\-precision:medium) and option 
\-fp\-model precise (and 
/fp:precise) implies 
\-fimf\-precision=high (and 
/Qimf\-precision:high). Option 
\-fp\-model fast=2 (and 
/fp:fast2) sets option 
\-fimf\-precision=medium (and 
/Qimf\-precision:medium) and option 
\-fimf\-domain\-exclusion=15 (and 
/Qimf\-domain\-exclusion=15). 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option cannot be used to change the default
(source) precision for the calculation of intermediate results. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
In Microsoft* Visual Studio, when you create a Visual
Studio* Fortran project, option 
/fp:fast is set by default. It sets the floating\-point model
to use more aggressive optimizations when implementing floating\-point
calculations, which increase speed, but may affect the accuracy or
reproducibility of floating\-point computations. 
/fp:fast is the general default for the IDE project property
for Floating Point Model. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fp\-port
.TP
.B
\-no\-fp\-port
.RS
.TP
Rounds floating\-point results after
floating\-point operations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-fp\-port 
.NL
The default rounding behavior depends on the
compiler\[aq]s code generation decisions and the precision parameters of the
operating system.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option rounds floating\-point results after floating\-point operations.
.NL
.PP
This option is designed to be used with the 
\-mia32 (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/arch:IA32 (Windows*) option on a 32\-bit compiler. Under those
conditions, the compiler implements floating\-point calculations using the x87
instruction set, which uses an internal precision that may be higher than the
precision specified in the program.
.NL
.PP
By default, the compiler may keep results of
floating\-point operations in this higher internal precision. Rounding to
program precision occurs at unspecified points. This provides better
performance, but the floating\-point results are less deterministic. The 
[Q]fp\-port option rounds floating\-point results to
user\-specified precision at assignments and type conversions. This has some
impact on speed.
.NL
.PP
When compiling for newer architectures, the compiler
implements floating\-point calculations with different instructions, such as
Intel(R) SSE and SSE2. These Intel(R) Streaming SIMD Extensions round directly to
single precision or double precision at every instruction. In these cases,
option 
[Q]fp\-port has no effect.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fp\-speculation=mode
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler the mode in which to
speculate on floating\-point operations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fImode\fR
.NL
Is the mode for floating\-point operations. Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
fast
Tells the compiler to speculate on
floating\-point operations. 
.TP 15
safe
Tells the compiler to disable speculation if
there is a possibility that the speculation may cause a floating\-point
exception. 
.TP 15
strict
Tells the compiler to disable speculation on
floating\-point operations. 
.TP 15
off
This is the same as specifying strict. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fp\-speculation=fast 
.NL
The compiler speculates on floating\-point
operations. This is also the behavior when optimizations are enabled. However,
if you specify no optimizations (\-O0 on Linux*), the default is 
\-fp\-speculation=safe (Linux*). 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler the mode in which to
speculate on floating\-point operations. 
.NL
.PP
Disabling speculation may
prevent the vectorization of some loops containing conditionals. For an
example, see the article titled: 
Diagnostic 15326: loop was not vectorized: implied FP exception model
prevents vectorization, which is located in
https://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/fdiag15326 . 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fp\-stack\-check
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate extra code
after every function call to ensure that the floating\-point stack is in the
expected state.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
There is no checking to ensure that the
floating\-point (FP) stack is in the expected state.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate extra code
after every function call to ensure that the floating\-point (FP) stack is in
the expected state.
.NL
.PP
By default, there is no checking. So when the FP stack
overflows, a NaN value is put into FP calculations and the program\[aq]s results
differ. Unfortunately, the overflow point can be far away from the point of the
actual bug. This option places code that causes an access violation exception
immediately after an incorrect call occurs, thus making it easier to locate
these issues. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpconstant
.TP
.B
\-nofpconstant
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler that single\-precision constants assigned to double\-precision variables should be evaluated in double precision.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nofpconstant
.NL
Single\-precision constants assigned to double\-precision variables are evaluated in single precision according to Fortran 2003 Standard rules.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler that single\-precision constants assigned to double\-precision variables should be evaluated in double precision.
.NL
.PP
This is extended precision. It does not comply with the Fortran 2003
standard, which requires that single\-precision constants assigned to double\-precision variables be evaluated in single precision.
.NL
.PP
It allows compatibility with FORTRAN 77, where such extended precision was allowed. If this option is not used, certain programs originally created for FORTRAN 77 compilers may show different floating\-point results because they rely on the extended precision for single\-precision constants assigned to double\-precision variables.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpen
.RS
.TP
Allows some control over floating\-point
exception handling for the main program at run\-time. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
n
.NL
Specifies the floating\-point exception handling
level. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Floating\-point invalid, divide\-by\-zero, and
overflow exceptions are enabled throughout the application when the main
program is compiled with this value. If any such exceptions occur, execution is
aborted. This option causes denormalized floating\-point results to be set to
zero. Underflow results will also be set to zero, unless you override this by
explicitly specifying option 
\-no\-ftz or 
\-fp\-model precise (Linux* and OS X*) or option 
/Qftz\- or /fp:precise (Windows*).
.IP
Underflow results from SSE instructions, as
well as x87 instructions, will be set to zero. By contrast, option 
[Q]ftz only
sets SSE underflow results to zero. 
.IP
Sets option 
\-fp\-speculation=strict (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qfp\-speculation:strict (Windows*) for any program
unit compiled with 
\-fpe0 (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/fpe:0 (Windows*). This disables certain
optimizations in cases where speculative execution of floating\-point operations
could lead to floating\-point exceptions that would not occur in the absence of
speculation. For example, this may prevent the vectorization of some loops
containing conditionals. 
.IP
To get more detailed location information
about where the error occurred, use option 
traceback. 
.TP 15
1
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled. 
.IP
Underflow results from SSE instructions, as
well as x87 instructions, will be set to zero. 
.TP 15
3
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled.
Floating\-point underflow is gradual, unless you explicitly specify a compiler
option that enables flush\-to\-zero, such as 
[Q]ftz, 
O3, or 
O2. This
setting provides full IEEE support. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fpe3
.NL
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled.
Floating\-point underflow is gradual, unless you explicitly specify a compiler
option that enables flush\-to\-zero. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option allows some control over floating\-point
exception handling at run\-time. This includes whether exceptional
floating\-point values are allowed and how precisely run\-time exceptions are
reported. 
.NL
.PP
The 
fpe option affects how
the following conditions are handled: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
When floating\-point calculations result in a divide
by zero, overflow, or invalid operation. 
.IP \(bu 2
When floating\-point calculations result in an
underflow. 
.IP \(bu 2
When a denormalized number or other exceptional
number (positive infinity, negative infinity, or a NaN) is present in an
arithmetic expression. 
.PP
When enabled exceptions occur, execution is aborted and
the cause of the abort reported to the user. If compiler option 
traceback is specified at
compile time, detailed information about the location of the abort is also
reported. 
.NL
.PP
This option does not enable underflow exceptions, input
denormal exceptions, or inexact exceptions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpe\-all=n
.RS
.TP
Allows some control over floating\-point
exception handling for each routine in a program at run\-time. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
n
.NL
Specifies the floating\-point exception handling
level. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Floating\-point invalid, divide\-by\-zero, and
overflow exceptions are enabled. If any such exceptions occur, execution is
aborted. This option sets the 
[Q]ftz
option; therefore underflow results will be set to zero unless you explicitly
specify 
\-no\-ftz
(Linux and OS X) or 
/Qftz\-
(Windows). 
.IP
To get more detailed location information
about where the error occurred, use option 
traceback. 
.TP 15
1
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled. 
.IP
Underflow results from SSE instructions, as
well as x87 instructions, will be set to zero. 
.TP 15
3
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled.
Floating\-point underflow is gradual, unless you explicitly specify a compiler
option that enables flush\-to\-zero, such as [Q]ftz, 
O3, or 
O2. This
setting provides full IEEE support. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fpe\-all=3
or the setting of 
fpe that the main program was compiled with
.NL
All floating\-point exceptions are disabled.
Floating\-point underflow is gradual, unless you explicitly specify a compiler
option that enables flush\-to\-zero. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option allows some control over floating\-point
exception handling for each routine in a program at run\-time. This includes
whether exceptional floating\-point values are allowed and how precisely
run\-time exceptions are reported. 
.NL
.PP
The 
fpe\-all option affects
how the following conditions are handled: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
When floating\-point calculations result in a divide
by zero, overflow, or invalid operation. 
.IP \(bu 2
When floating\-point calculations result in an
underflow. 
.IP \(bu 2
When a denormalized number or other exceptional
number (positive infinity, negative infinity, or a NaN) is present in an
arithmetic expression. 
.PP
The current settings of the floating\-point exception and
status flags are saved on each routine entry and restored on each routine exit.
This may incur some performance overhead. 
.NL
.PP
When option 
fpe\-all is applied to a main program, it has the same effect
as when option 
fpe is applied to the main program. 
.NL
.PP
When enabled exceptions occur, execution is aborted and
the cause of the abort reported to the user. If compiler option 
traceback is specified at
compile time, detailed information about the location of the abort is also
reported. 
.NL
.PP
This option does not enable underflow exceptions, input
denormal exceptions, or inexact exceptions. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
fpe\-all sets option 
assume ieee_fpe_flags. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpic
.TP
.B
\-fno\-pic
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler generates position\-independent code.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-pic
.NL
The compiler does not generate position\-independent code.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler generates position\-independent code.
.NL
.PP
Option \-fpic specifies full symbol preemption. Global symbol definitions as well as global symbol references get default (that is, preemptable) visibility unless explicitly specified otherwise.
.NL
.PP
Option \-fpic must be used when building shared objects.
.NL
.PP
This option can also be specified as \-fPIC.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpie (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate position\-independent code. The generated code can only be linked into executables. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not generate position\-independent code for an executable\-only object.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate position\-independent code. It is similar to \-fpic, but code generated by \-fpie can only be linked into an executable. 
.NL
.PP
Because the object is linked into an executable, this option causes better optimization of some symbol references.
.NL
.PP
To ensure that run\-time libraries are set up properly for the executable, you should also specify option \-pie to the compiler driver on the link command line. 
.NL
.PP
Option \-fpie can also be specified as \-fPIE.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpp
.TP
.B
\-nofpp
.RS
.TP
Runs the Fortran preprocessor on source
files before compilation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfpp_option\fR
.NL
Is a Fortran preprocessor (fpp) option; it must
start with a slash (/) and appear in quotes. This argument is only allowed on
Windows* systems. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nofpp
.NL
The Fortran preprocessor is not run on files before
compilation. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option runs the Fortran preprocessor on source files
before they are compiled. 
.NL
.PP
If you want to pass fpp options to the Fortran
preprocessor, you can use any of the following methods: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Use option 
Qoption,fpp,"option". This is the recommended method. 
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems, use this option
(fpp) and include the argument 
\fIfpp_option\fR (for example, 
fpp:"/macro=no"). 
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems, use option 
\-Wp,fpp_option (for example, 
\-Wp,\-macro=no). 
.PP
To see a list of all available fpp options, specify one
of the following on the command line: 
.NL
.PP
fpp \-help! Linux and OS X systems
.PP
.PP
fpp /help! Windows systems
.PP
.PP
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-cpp (this is a
deprecated option) 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpp\-name=name
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify an alternate
preprocessor to use with Fortran. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIname\fR
.NL
Is the name of the preprocessor executable. It can
include a path. See the description below for more details. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No preprocessor is run on files before
compilation. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify an alternate preprocessor to use with Fortran. 
.NL
.PP
The compiler invokes the user\-specified Fortran preprocessor by spawning a
command with the following signature: 
.NL
.PP
alt_fpp [ [D<define>]..] [[\-I<include directory>]..] inputfile 
.PP
.PP
where 
alt_fpp is the name of the Fortran preprocessor you want to
use. Output from the preprocessor goes to STDOUT and will be captured for any
further processing. 
.NL
.PP
You can use option 
Qoption,fpp, to pass options, other than the definitions
(\-D xxx) or include directories (\-I xxx), to
the preprocessor. 
.NL
.PP
You can use option 
Qlocation, fpp, to specify a directory for supporting tools. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fprotect\-parens
.TP
.B
\-fno\-protect\-parens
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the optimizer honors
parentheses when expressions are evaluated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-protect\-parens 
.NL
Parentheses are ignored when determining the order
of expression evaluation. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the optimizer honors parentheses when
determining the order of expression evaluation. 
.NL
.PP
When option 
\-fprotect\-parens (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qprotect\-parens (Windows*) is specified, the optimizer will
maintain the order of evaluation imposed by parentheses in the code. 
.NL
.PP
When the option 
\-fno\-protect\-parens (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qprotect\-parens\- (Windows*) is specified, the optimizer may
reorder expressions without regard for parentheses if it produces faster
executing code. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-assume protect_parens
.NL
.PP
Windows: 
/assume:protect_parens
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fpscomp [keyword[, 
keyword...]]
.TP
.B
\-nofpscomp
.RS
.TP
Controls whether certain aspects of the
run\-time system and semantic language features within the compiler are
compatible with Intel(R) Fortran or Microsoft* Fortran PowerStation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the compatibility that the compiler
should follow. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Specifies that no options should be used for
compatibility. 
.TP 15
[no]filesfromcmd
Determines what compatibility is used when
the OPEN statement FILE= specifier is blank. 
.TP 15
[no]general
Determines what compatibility is used when
semantics differences exist between Fortran PowerStation and Intel(R) Fortran. 
.TP 15
[no]ioformat
Determines what compatibility is used for
list\-directed formatted and unformatted I/O. 
.TP 15
[no]libs
Determines whether the portability library is
passed to the linker. 
.TP 15
[no]ldio_spacing
Determines whether a blank is inserted at
run\-time after a numeric value before a character value. 
.TP 15
[no]logicals
Determines what compatibility is used for
representation of LOGICAL values. 
.TP 15
all
Specifies that all options should be used for
compatibility. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
fpscomp libs
.NL
The portability library is passed to the linker. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls whether certain aspects of the
run\-time system and semantic language features within the compiler are
compatible with Intel Fortran or Microsoft* Fortran PowerStation. 
.NL
.PP
If you experience problems when porting applications from
Fortran PowerStation, specify 
fpscomp (or 
fpscomp all). When
porting applications from Intel Fortran, use 
fpscomp none or 
fpscomp libs (the
default). 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp none
.NL
Specifies that no options should be used for
compatibility with Fortran PowerStation. This is the same as specifying 
nofpscomp.
Option 
fpscomp none
enables full Intel(R) Fortran compatibility. If you omit 
fpscomp, the
default is 
fpscomp libs.
You cannot use the 
fpscomp and 
vms options in
the same command. 
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp filesfromcmd
.NL
Specifies Fortran PowerStation behavior when
the OPEN statement FILE= specifier is blank (FILE=\[aq] \[aq]). It causes the following
actions to be taken at run time: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The program reads a file name from the list
of arguments (if any) in the command line that invoked the program. If any of
the command\-line arguments contain a null string (\[aq]\[aq]), the program asks the
user for the corresponding file name. Each additional OPEN statement with a
blank FILE= specifier reads the next command\-line argument. 
.IP \(bu 2
If there are more nameless OPEN statements
than command\-line arguments, the program prompts for additional file names. 
.IP \(bu 2
In a QuickWin application, a "File Select"
dialog box appears to request file names. 
.RE
.TP 18
To prevent the run\-time system from using the
file name specified on the command line when the OPEN statement FILE specifier
is omitted, specify 
fpscomp
nofilesfromcmd. This allows the application of Intel Fortran defaults,
such as the FORTn environment variable and the FORT. 
\fIn\fR file name
(where 
\fIn\fR is the
unit number). 
.TP 18
The 
fpscomp
filesfromcmd option affects the following Fortran features: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The OPEN statement FILE specifier 
For example, assume a program OPENTEST
contains the following statements: 
OPEN(UNIT = 2, FILE = \[aq] \[aq]) 
OPEN(UNIT = 3, FILE = \[aq] \[aq]) 
OPEN(UNIT = 4, FILE = \[aq] \[aq]) 
The following command line assigns the file
TEST.DAT to unit 2, prompts the user for a file name to associate with unit 3,
then prompts again for a file name to associate with unit 4: 
opentest test.dat \[aq]\[aq] \[aq]\[aq] 
.IP \(bu 2
Implicit file open statements such as the
WRITE, READ, and ENDFILE statements Unopened files referred to in READ or WRITE
statements are opened implicitly as if there had been an OPEN statement with a
name specified as all blanks. The name is read from the command line. 
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp general
.NL
Specifies that Fortran PowerStation semantics
should be used when a difference exists between Intel Fortran and Fortran
PowerStation. The 
fpscomp general
option affects the following Fortran features: 
.IP \(bu 2
The BACKSPACE statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
It allows files opened with
ACCESS=\[aq]APPEND\[aq] to be used with the BACKSPACE statement. 
.IP \(bu 2
It allows files opened with
ACCESS=\[aq]DIRECT\[aq] to be used with the BACKSPACE statement. 
.RE
Note: Allowing files that are not opened
with sequential access (such as ACCESS=\[aq]DIRECT\[aq]) to be used with the BACKSPACE
statement violates the Fortran 95 standard and may be removed in the future. 
.IP \(bu 2
The READ statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
It causes a READ from a formatted file
opened for direct access to read records that have the same record type format
as Fortran PowerStation. This consists of accounting for the trailing Carriage
Return/Line Feed pair (<CR><LF>) that is part of the record. It
allows sequential reads from a formatted file opened for direct access. 
Note: Allowing files that are not
opened with sequential access (such as ACCESS=\[aq]DIRECT\[aq]) to be used with the
sequential READ statement violates the Fortran 95 standard and may be removed
in the future. 
.IP \(bu 2
It allows the last record in a file
opened with FORM=\[aq]FORMATTED\[aq] and a record type of STREAM_LF or STREAM_CR that
does not end with a proper record terminator (<line feed> or <carriage
return>) to be read without producing an error. 
.IP \(bu 2
It allows sequential reads from an
unformatted file opened for direct access. 
.IP \(bu 2
Note: Allowing files that are not
opened with sequential access (such as ACCESS=\[aq]DIRECT\[aq]) to be read with the
sequential READ statement violates the Fortran 95 standard and may be removed
in the future. 
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The INQUIRE statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The CARRIAGECONTROL specifier returns
the value "UNDEFINED" instead of "UNKNOWN" when the carriage control is not
known. 
.IP \(bu 2
The NAME specifier returns the file
name "UNKNOWN" instead of filling the file name with spaces when the file name
is not known. 
.IP \(bu 2
The SEQUENTIAL specifier returns the
value "YES" instead of "NO" for a direct access formatted file. 
.IP \(bu 2
The UNFORMATTED specifier returns the
value "NO" instead of "UNKNOWN" when it is not known whether unformatted I/O
can be performed to the file. 
Note: Returning the value "NO" instead
of "UNKNOWN" for this specifier violates the Fortran 95 standard and may be
removed in the future. 
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The OPEN statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
If a file is opened with an unspecified
STATUS keyword value, and is not named (no FILE specifier), the file is opened
as a scratch file. 
For example: 
OPEN (UNIT = 4) 
.IP \(bu 2
In contrast, when fpscomp nogeneral is
in effect with an unspecified STATUS value with no FILE specifier, the
FORT\fIn\fR environment variable and the FORT.n file name are used (where 
\fIn\fR is the unit number). 
.IP \(bu 2
If the STATUS value was not specified
and if the name of the file is "USER", the file is marked for deletion when it
is closed. 
.IP \(bu 2
It allows a file to be opened with the
APPEND and READONLY characteristics. 
.IP \(bu 2
If the default for the CARRIAGECONTROL
specifier is assumed, it gives "LIST" carriage control to direct access
formatted files instead of "NONE". 
.IP \(bu 2
If the default for the CARRIAGECONTROL
specifier is assumed and the device type is a terminal file, the file is given
the default carriage control value of "FORTRAN" instead of "LIST". 
.IP \(bu 2
It gives an opened file the additional
default of write sharing. 
.IP \(bu 2
It gives the file a default block size
of 1024 instead of 8192. 
.IP \(bu 2
If the default for the MODE and ACTION
specifier is assumed and there was an error opening the file, try opening the
file as read only, then write only. 
.IP \(bu 2
If a file that is being re\-opened has a
different file type than the current existing file, an error is returned. 
.IP \(bu 2
It gives direct access formatted files
the same record type as Fortran PowerStation. This means accounting for the
trailing Carriage Return/Line Feed pair (<CR><LF>) that is part of
the record. 
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The STOP statement: It writes the Fortran
PowerStation output string and/or returns the same exit condition values. 
.IP \(bu 2
The WRITE statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Writing to formatted direct files 
When writing to a formatted file opened
for direct access, records are written in the same record type format as
Fortran PowerStation. This consists of adding the trailing Carriage Return/Line
Feed pair <CR><LF>) that is part of the record. 
It ignores the CARRIAGECONTROL
specifier setting when writing to a formatted direct access file. 
.IP \(bu 2
Interpreting Fortran carriage control
characters 
When interpreting Fortran carriage
control characters during formatted I/O, carriage control sequences are written
that are the same as Fortran PowerStation. This is true for the "Space, 0, 1
and + " characters. 
.IP \(bu 2
Performing non\-advancing I/O to the
terminal 
When performing non\-advancing I/O to
the terminal, output is written in the same format as Fortran PowerStation. 
.IP \(bu 2
Interpreting the backslash (\) and
dollar ($) edit descriptors 
When interpreting backslash and dollar
edit descriptors during formatted I/O, sequences are written the same as
Fortran PowerStation. 
.IP \(bu 2
Performing sequential writes 
It allows sequential writes from an
unformatted file opened for direct access. 
Note: Allowing files that are not
opened with sequential access (such as ACCESS=\[aq]DIRECT\[aq]) to be read with the
sequential WRITE statement violates the Fortran 95 standard and may be removed
in the future. 
.RE
.TP 18
Specifying 
fpscomp general
sets 
fpscomp
ldio_spacing. 
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp ioformat
.NL
Specifies that Fortran PowerStation semantic
conventions and record formats should be used for list\-directed formatted and
unformatted I/O. The 
fpscomp ioformat option affects the following
Fortran features: 
.IP \(bu 2
The WRITE statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
For formatted list\-directed WRITE
statements, formatted internal list\-directed WRITE statements, and formatted
namelist WRITE statements, the output line, field width values, and the
list\-directed data type semantics are determined according to the following
sample for real constants (N below): 
For 1 <= N < 10**7, use F15.6 for
single precision or F24.15 for double. 
For N < 1 or N >= 10**7, use
E15.6E2 for single precision or E24.15E3 for double. 
See the Fortran PowerStation
documentation for more detailed information about the other data types
affected. 
.IP \(bu 2
For unformatted WRITE statements, the
unformatted file semantics are dictated according to the Fortran PowerStation
documentation; these semantics are different from the Intel Fortran file
format. See the Fortran PowerStation documentation for more detailed
information. 
The following table summarizes the
default output formats for list\-directed output with the intrinsic data types: 
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The READ statement: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
For formatted list\-directed READ
statements, formatted internal list\-directed READ statements, and formatted
namelist READ statements, the field width values and the list\-directed
semantics are dictated according to the following sample for real constants (N
below): 
For 1 <= N < 10**7, use F15.6 for
single precision or F24.15 for double. 
For N < 1 or N >= 10**7, use
E15.6E2 for single precision or E24.15E3 for double. 
See the Fortran PowerStation
documentation for more detailed information about the other data types
affected. 
.IP \(bu 2
For unformatted READ statements, the
unformatted file semantics are dictated according to the Fortran PowerStation
documentation; these semantics are different from the Intel Fortran file
format. See the Fortran PowerStation documentation for more detailed
information. 
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp nolibs
.NL
Prevents the portability library from being
passed to the linker. 
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp ldio_spacing
.NL
Specifies that at run time a blank should not
be inserted after a numeric value before a character value (undelimited
character string). This representation is used by Intel Fortran releases before
Version 8.0 and by Fortran PowerStation. If you specify 
fpscomp
general, it sets 
fpscomp
ldio_spacing. 
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp logicals
.NL
Specifies that integers with a non\-zero value
are treated as true, integers with a zero value are treated as false. The
literal constant .TRUE. has an integer value of 1, and the literal constant
.FALSE. has an integer value of 0. This representation is used by Intel Fortran
releases before Version 8.0 and by Fortran PowerStation. 
.TP 18
The default is 
fpscomp
nologicals, which specifies that odd integer values (low bit one) are
treated as true and even integer values (low bit zero) are treated as false. 
.TP 18
The literal constant .TRUE. has an integer
value of \-1, and the literal constant .FALSE. has an integer value of 0. This
representation is used by Compaq* Visual Fortran. The internal representation
of LOGICAL values is not specified by the Fortran standard. Programs which use
integer values in LOGICAL contexts, or which pass LOGICAL values to procedures
written in other languages, are non\-portable and may not execute correctly.
Intel recommends that you avoid coding practices that depend on the internal
representation of LOGICAL values. 
.TP 18
The 
fpscomp
logicals option affects the results of all logical expressions and
affects the return value for the following Fortran features: 
.IP \(bu 2
The INQUIRE statement specifiers OPENED,
IOFOCUS, EXISTS, and NAMED 
.IP \(bu 2
The EOF intrinsic function 
.IP \(bu 2
The BTEST intrinsic function 
.IP \(bu 2
The lexical intrinsic functions LLT, LLE,
LGT, and LGE 
.NL
.TP 18
fpscomp all
.NL
Specifies that all options should be used for
compatibility with Fortran PowerStation. This is the same as specifying 
fpscomp with no
keyword. Option 
fpscomp all
enables full compatibility with Fortran PowerStation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-free 
.TP
.B
\-nofree
.RS
.TP
Specifies source files are in free format.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The source file format is determined from the file extension.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies source files are in free format. If this option is not specified, format is determined as follows:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Files with an extension of .f90, .F90, or .i90 are free\-format source files.
.IP \(bu 2
Files with an extension of .f, .for, .FOR, .ftn, or .i are fixed\-format files.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-FR
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fsource\-asm
.RS
.TP
Produces an assembly listing with source code annotations.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No source code annotations appear in the assembly listing file, if one is produced.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option produces an assembly listing file with source code annotations. The assembly listing file shows the source code as interspersed comments.
.NL
.PP
To use this option, you must also specify option \-S, which causes an assembly listing to be generated.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fstack\-protector[\-keyword]
.TP
.B
\-fno\-stack\-protector[\-keyword]
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables stack overflow
security checks for certain (or all) routines. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
strong
When option 
\-fstack\-protector\-strong is specified, it enables
stack overflow security checks for routines with any type of buffer. 
.TP 15
all
When option 
\-fstack\-protector\-all is specified, it enables
stack overflow security checks for every routine. 
.RE
.PP
If no 
\-keyword is specified, option 
\-fstack\-protector enables stack overflow security checks for
routines with a string buffer. 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-stack\-protector, 
\-fno\-stack\-protector\-strong
.NL
No stack overflow security checks are enabled for
the relevant routines. 
.TP 18
\-fno\-stack\-protector\-all
.NL
No stack overflow security checks are enabled for
any routines. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables stack overflow security checks for certain
(or all) routines. A stack overflow occurs when a program stores more data in a
variable on the execution stack than is allocated to the variable. Writing past
the end of a string buffer or using an index for an array that is larger than
the array bound could cause a stack overflow and security violations. 
.NL
.PP
The 
\-fstack\-protector options are provided for compatibility with
gcc. They use the gcc/glibc implementation when possible. If the gcc/glibc
implementation is not available, they use the Intel implementation. 
.NL
.PP
For an Intel\-specific version of this feature, see option 
\-fstack\-security\-check. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fstack\-security\-check
.TP
.B
\-fno\-stack\-security\-check
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler generates
code that detects some buffer overruns. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-stack\-security\-check
.NL
The compiler does not detect buffer overruns. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler generates
code that detects some buffer overruns that overwrite the return address. This
is a common technique for exploiting code that does not enforce buffer size
restrictions. 
.NL
.PP
This option always uses an Intel implementation. 
.NL
.PP
For a gcc\-compliant version of this feature, see option 
fstack\-protector. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ftrapuv
.RS
.TP
Initializes stack local variables to an
unusual value to aid error detection. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not initialize local variables. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option initializes stack local variables to an
unusual value to aid error detection. Normally, these local variables should be
initialized in the application. It also unmasks the floating\-point invalid
exception. 
.NL
.PP
The option sets any uninitialized local variables that
are allocated on the stack to a value that is typically interpreted as a very
large integer or an invalid address. References to these variables are then
likely to cause run\-time errors that can help you detect coding errors. 
.NL
.PP
This option sets option 
\-g (Linux* and OS X*) and
/Zi or 
/Z7 (Windows*), which
changes the default optimization level from 
O2 to 
\-O0 (Linux and OS X) or 
/Od (Windows). You can override this effect by explicitly
specifying an 
O option setting. 
.NL
.PP
This option sets option 
[Q]init snan. 
.NL
.PP
If option 
O2 and option 
\-ftrapuv (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qtrapuv (Windows) are used together, you should specify
option 
\-fp\-speculation safe (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qfp\-speculation:safe (Windows) to prevent exceptions
resulting from speculated floating\-point operations from being trapped. 
.NL
.PP
For more details on using options 
\-ftrapuv and 
/Qtrapuv with compiler option 
O, see the article in Intel(R) Developer Zone titled 
Don\[aq]t optimize when using \-ftrapuv for uninitialized variable
detection. 
.NL
.PP
Another way to detect uninitialized local scalar
variables is by specifying keyword 
uninit for option 
check. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ftz
.TP
.B
\-no\-ftz
.RS
.TP
Flushes denormal results to zero.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-ftz
.NL
Denormal results are flushed to zero.
.IP
Every optimization option O level, except O0, sets [Q]ftz.
.IP
Value 0 for the [Q]fpe option sets [Q]ftz.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option flushes denormal results to zero when the application is in the gradual underflow mode. It may improve performance if the denormal values are not critical to your application\[aq]s behavior.
.NL
.PP
The [Q]ftz option has no effect during compile\-time optimization.
.NL
.PP
The [Q]ftz option sets or resets the FTZ and the DAZ hardware flags. If FTZ is ON, denormal results from floating\-point calculations will be set to the value zero. If FTZ is OFF, denormal results remain as is. If DAZ is ON, denormal values used as input to floating\-point instructions will be treated as zero. If DAZ is OFF, denormal instruction inputs remain as is.  Systems using Intel(R) 64 architecture have both FTZ and DAZ. FTZ and DAZ are not supported on all IA\-32 architectures. 
.NL
.PP
When the [Q]ftz option is used in combination with an SSE\-enabling option on systems using IA\-32 architecture (for example, the [Q]xSSE2 option), the compiler will insert code in the main routine to set FTZ and DAZ. When [Q]ftz is used without such an option, the compiler will insert code to conditionally set FTZ/DAZ based on a run\-time processor check.  The negative form of  option [Q]ftz will prevent the compiler from inserting any code that might set FTZ or DAZ. 
.NL
.PP
Option [Q]ftz only has an effect when the main program is being compiled. It sets the FTZ/DAZ mode for the process. The initial thread and any threads subsequently created by that process will operate in FTZ/DAZ mode.
.NL
.PP
If this option produces undesirable results of the numerical behavior of your program, you can turn the FTZ/DAZ mode off by using \-no\-ftz or /Qftz\- in the command line while still benefiting from the O3 optimizations.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Option [Q]ftz is a performance option. Setting this option does not guarantee that all denormals in a program are flushed to zero. The option only causes denormals generated at run time to be flushed to zero.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fverbose\-asm
.TP
.B
\-fno\-verbose\-asm
.RS
.TP
Produces an assembly listing with compiler comments, including options and version information.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-verbose\-asm
.NL
No source code annotations appear in the assembly listing file, if one is produced.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option produces an assembly listing file with compiler comments, including options and version information.
.NL
.PP
To use this option, you must also specify \-S, which sets \-fverbose\-asm.
.NL
.PP
If you do not want this default when you specify \-S, specify \-fno\-verbose\-asm.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fvisibility=keyword
.TP
.B
\-fvisibility\-keyword=filename
.RS
.TP
Specifies the default visibility for
global symbols or the visibility for symbols in a file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies the visibility setting. Possible values
are:
.RS
.TP 15
default
Sets visibility to default.
.TP 15
extern
Sets visibility to extern.
.TP 15
hidden
Sets visibility to hidden.
.TP 15
internal
Sets visibility to internal.
.TP 15
protected
Sets visibility to protected. This value is
not available on OS X* systems.
.RE
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the pathname of a file containing the list of
symbols whose visibility you want to set. The symbols must be separated by
whitespace (spaces, tabs, or newlines).
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=default
.NL
The compiler sets visibility of symbols to default.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the default visibility for global
symbols (syntax 
\-fvisibility=\fIkeyword\fR) or the visibility for
symbols in a file (syntax 
\-fvisibility\-\fIkeyword=filename\fR). 
.NL
.PP
Visibility specified by 
\-fvisibility\-\fIkeyword=filename\fR overrides
visibility specified by 
\-fvisibility=\fIkeyword\fR for symbols specified
in a file.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=default \-fvisibility\-default\fI=filename\fR
.NL
Sets visibility of symbols to default. This
means other components can reference the symbol, and the symbol definition can
be overridden (preempted) by a definition of the same name in another
component.
.NL
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=extern \-fvisibility\-extern\fI=filename\fR
.NL
Sets visibility of symbols to extern. This
means the symbol is treated as though it is defined in another component. It
also means that the symbol can be overridden by a definition of the same name
in another component.
.NL
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=hidden \-fvisibility\-hidden\fI=filename\fR
.NL
Sets visibility of symbols to hidden. This
means that other components cannot directly reference the symbol. However, its
address may be passed to other components indirectly.
.NL
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=internal \-fvisibility\-internal\fI=filename\fR
.NL
Sets visibility of symbols to internal. This
means that the symbol cannot be referenced outside its defining component,
either directly or indirectly. The affected functions can never be called from
another module, including through function pointers.
.NL
.TP 18
\-fvisibility=protected \-fvisibility\-protected\fI=filename\fR
.NL
Sets visibility of symbols to protected. This
means other components can reference the symbol, but it cannot be overridden by
a definition of the same name in another component. This value is not available
on OS X* systems.
.NL
.PP
If an 
\-fvisibility option is
specified more than once on the command line, the last specification takes
precedence over any others.
.NL
.PP
If a symbol appears in more than one visibility 
\fIfilename\fR, the
setting with the least visibility takes precedence.
.NL
.PP
The following shows the precedence of the visibility
settings (from greatest to least visibility):
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
extern
.IP \(bu 2
default
.IP \(bu 2
protected
.IP \(bu 2
hidden
.IP \(bu 2
internal
.PP
Note that 
extern visibility only applies to
functions. If a variable symbol is specified as 
extern, it is assumed to be 
default.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-fzero\-initialized\-in\-bss
.TP
.B
\-fno\-zero\-initialized\-in\-bss
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler places
in the DATA section any variables explicitly initialized with zeros.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-fno\-zero\-initialized\-in\-bss 
.NL
Variables explicitly initialized with zeros are
placed in the BSS section. This can save space in the resulting code.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler places in the DATA section any
variables explicitly initialized with zeros.
.NL
.PP
If option 
\-fno\-zero\-initialized\-in\-bss (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qzero\-initialized\-in\-bss\- (Windows*) is specified, the
compiler places in the DATA section any variables that are initialized to zero.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-g
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate full
debugging information in the object file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No debugging information is produced. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
Option 
\-g tells the compiler to generate symbolic debugging
information in the object file, which increases the size of the object file. 
.NL
.PP
The compiler does not support the generation of debugging information in
assemblable files. If you specify this option, the resulting object file will
contain debugging information, but the assemblable file will not. 
.NL
.PP
This option turns off option 
\-O2 and makes option 
\-O0 the default unless option 
\-O2 (or higher) is explicitly specified in the same command
line. 
.NL
.PP
Specifying the 
\-g or 
\-O0 option sets the 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer option. On Linux*, the \-debug
inline\-debug\-info option will be enabled by default if you compile with
optimizations (option 
\-O2 or higher) and debugging is enabled (option 
\-g). 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
When option 
\-g is specified, debugging information is generated in the
DWARF Version 3 format. Older versions of some analysis tools may require
applications to be built with the 
\-gdwarf\-2 option to ensure correct operation. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux: None 
.NL
.PP
Windows: /Zi, /Z7
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gcc\-name=name (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify the name of the gcc compiler that should be used to set up the link\-time environment, including the location of standard libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIname\fR
.NL
Is the name of the gcc compiler to use.  It can include the path where the gcc compiler is located.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses the PATH setting to find the gcc compiler and resolve environment settings.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify the name of the gcc compiler that should be used to set up the link\-time environment, including the location of standard libraries. If you do not specify a path, the compiler will search the PATH settings for the compiler name you provide.
.NL
.PP
This option is helpful when you are referencing a non\-standard gcc installation, or you have multiple gcc installations on your system. The compiler will match gcc version values to the gcc compiler you specify.
.NL
.PP
The C++ equivalent to option \-gcc\-name is \-gxx\-name.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gdwarf\-n
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify a DWARF Version format
when generating debug information.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a value denoting the DWARF Version format to
use. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
2
Generates debug information using the DWARF
Version 2 format.
.TP 15
3
Generates debug information using the DWARF
Version 3 format.
.TP 15
4
Generates debug information using the DWARF
Version 4 format. This setting is only available on Linux*.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No debug information is generated. However, if
compiler option 
\-g is specified,
debugging information is generated in the DWARF Version 3 format.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify a DWARF Version format when
generating debug information. 
.NL
.PP
Note that older versions of some analysis tools may
require applications to be built with the \-gdwarf\-2 option to ensure correct
operation.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gen\-dep[=filename]
.TP
.B
\-no\-gen\-dep
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate build
dependencies for the current compilation.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file for output. It can include
a path.
.IP
If you specify 
\fIfilename\fR, it
is similar to specifying option [Q]MF\fIfilename\fR. If you do not specify
\fIfilename\fR, it
is similar to specifying option [Q]MD or [Q]MMD.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-gen\-dep or 
/gen\-dep\-
.NL
The compiler does not generate build dependencies
for the compilation.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate build
dependencies for the current compilation. The build dependencies include a list
of all files included with INCLUDE statements or .mod files accessed with USE
statements.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify 
\fIfilename\fR, the dependencies are written to stdout.
.NL
.PP
You can use option 
gen\-depformat to specify the form of the output for the build
dependencies generated. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify option 
gen\-dep and you do not specify option 
gen\-depformat, the output format is in a form acceptable to
the make utility.
.NL
.PP
Note that if option 
fpp is used to process #include files, those files will also
appear in the list of build dependencies.
.NL
.PP
If you want to generate build dependencies but you do
not want to compile the sources, you must also specify option 
syntax\-only.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
gen\-dep with a 
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-MF
.TP 18
gen\-dep with no 
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-MD or 
\-MMD
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gen\-depformat=form
.RS
.TP
Specifies the form for the output generated when option gen\-dep is specified.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIform\fR
.NL
Is the output form for the list of build dependencies. Possible values are make or nmake.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
make
.NL
The output form for the list of build dependencies is in a form acceptable to the make utility.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the form for the output
generated when option gen\-dep is specified.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option gen\-depformat and do not
specify option gen\-dep, the option is ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gen\-depshow=keyword
.RS
.TP
Determines whether certain features are excluded from dependency analysis.  Currently, it only applies to intrinsic modules.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies inclusion or exclusion from dependency analysis. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
[no]intr_mod
Determines whether intrinsic modules are excluded from dependency analysis.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nointr_mod
.NL
Tells the compiler to exclude Fortran intrinsic modules in dependency analysis.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether certain features are excluded from dependency analysis.  Currently, it only applies to intrinsic modules.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
gen\-depshow intr_mod
.NL
Tells the compiler to include Fortran intrinsic modules in dependency analysis.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify option gen\-dep, the compiler does not generate build dependencies for the compilation.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option gen\-depshow and do not specify option gen\-dep, the option is ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
gen\-depshow nointr_mod
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-MMD
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gen\-interfaces 
[[no]source]
.TP
.B
\-nogen\-interfaces
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate an
interface block for each routine in a source file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nogen\-interfaces
.NL
The compiler does not generate interface blocks for
routines in a source file. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate an interface
block for each routine (that is, for each SUBROUTINE and FUNCTION statement)
defined in the source file. The compiler generates two files for each routine,
a .mod file and a .f90 file, and places them in the current directory or in the
directory specified by the include (\-I) or 
\-module option. The .f90
file is the text of the interface block; the .mod file is the interface block
compiled into binary form. The .f90 file is for reference only and may not
completely represent the generated interface used by the compiler. 
.NL
.PP
If 
source is specified, the compiler
creates the 
\fIprocedure\-name\fR__GENmod.f90 as well as the 
\fIprocedure\-name\fR__GENmod.mod files. If 
nosource is specified, the
compiler creates the 
\fIprocedure\-name\fR__GENmod.mod but not the 
\fIprocedure\-name\fR__GENmod.f90 files. If neither is specified,
it is the same as specifying setting 
source for the 
gen\-interfaces option. 
.NL
.PP
On Windows* systems, for a Debug configuration in a
Visual Studio project, the default is /warn:interfaces. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-global\-hoist
.TP
.B
\-no\-global\-hoist
.RS
.TP
Enables certain optimizations that can move memory loads to a point earlier in the program execution than where they appear in the source.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-global\-hoist 
.NL
Certain optimizations are enabled that can move memory loads.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables certain optimizations that can move memory loads to a point earlier in the program execution than where they appear in the source. In most cases, these optimizations are safe and can improve performance. 
.NL
.PP
The negative form of the option is useful for some applications, such as those that use shared or dynamically mapped memory, which can fail if a load is moved too early in the execution stream (for example, before the memory is mapped).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-grecord\-gcc\-switches (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Causes the command line options that were used to invoke the compiler to be appended to the DW_AT_producer attribute in DWARF debugging information.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The command line options that were used to
invoke the compiler are not appended to the DW_AT_producer
attribute in DWARF debugging information.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the command line options
that were used to invoke the compiler to be appended to the DW_AT_producer attribute in DWARF
debugging information.
.NL
.PP
The options
are concatenated with whitespace separating them from each other and
from the compiler version.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gsplit\-dwarf (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Creates a separate object file containing
DWARF debug information. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitectures:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No separate object file containing DWARF debug
information is created. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option creates a separate object file containing DWARF debug
information. It causes debug information to be split between the generated
object (.o) file and the new DWARF object (.dwo) file. 
.NL
.PP
The DWARF object file is not used by the linker, so this reduces the amount
of debug information the linker must process and it results in a smaller
executable file. 
.NL
.PP
For this option to perform correctly, you must use binutils\-2.24 or later.
To debug the resulting executable, you must use gdb\-7.6.1 or later. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you use the split executable with a tool that does
not support the split DWARF format, it will behave as though the DWARF debug
information is absent. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide[=n]
.RS
.TP
Lets you set a level of guidance for
auto\-vectorization, auto parallelism, and data transformation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional value specifying the level of guidance to be provided.
.IP
The values available are 1 through 4. Value 1 indicates a standard
level of guidance. Value 4 indicates the most advanced level of guidance. If 
\fIn\fR is omitted, the default is 4.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
You do not receive guidance about how to improve
optimizations for parallelism, vectorization, and data transformation.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you set a level of guidance (advice) for
auto\-vectorization, auto parallelism, and data transformation. It causes the
compiler to generate messages suggesting ways to improve these optimizations. 
.NL
.PP
When this option is specified, the compiler does not
produce any objects or executables. 
.NL
.PP
You must also specify the 
[Q]parallel option to receive auto parallelism guidance.
.NL
.PP
You can set levels of guidance for the individual guide
optimizations by specifying one of the following options:
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]guide\-data\-trans
.NL
Provides guidance for data transformation. 
.TP 18
[Q]guide\-par
.NL
Provides guidance for auto
parallelism.
.TP 18
[Q]guide\-vec
.NL
Provides guidance for auto\-vectorization. 
.PP
If you specify the 
[Q]guide option and also specify one of the options setting a
level of guidance for an individual guide optimization, the value set for the
individual guide optimization will override the setting specified in 
[Q]guide.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify 
[Q]guide, but specify one of the options setting a level of
guidance for an individual guide optimization, option 
[Q]guide is enabled with the greatest value passed among any
of the three individual guide optimizations specified.
.NL
.PP
In debug mode, this option has no effect unless option 
O2 (or higher) is explicitly specified in the same command
line.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
The compiler speculatively performs optimizations as
part of guide analysis. As a result, when you use guided auto\-parallelism
options with options that produce vectorization or auto\-parallelizer reports
(such as option 
[q or Q]opt\-report), the compiler generates "LOOP WAS
VECTORIZED" or similar messages as if the compilation was performed with the
recommended changes. 
.PP
When compilation is performed with the 
[Q]guide option, you should use extra caution when
interpreting vectorizer diagnostics and auto\-parallelizer diagnostics.
.PP
.B NOTE:
You can specify 
[Q]diag\-disable to prevent the compiler from issuing one or
more diagnostic messages. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-data\-trans[=n]
.RS
.TP
Lets you set a level of guidance for data transformation.  
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional value specifying the level of guidance to be provided.
.IP
The values available are 1 through 4. Value 1 indicates a standard level of guidance. Value 4 indicates the most advanced level of guidance. If \fIn\fR is omitted, the default is 4.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
You do not receive guidance about how to improve optimizations for data transformation.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you set a level of guidance for data transformation. It causes the compiler to generate messages suggesting ways to improve that optimization.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-file[=filename]
.RS
.TP
Causes the results of guided auto
parallelism to be output to a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file for output. It can include
a path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Messages that are generated by guided auto
parallelism are output to stderr.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the results of guided auto parallelism to be output to a
file.
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you also specify one or more of the following
options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-vec
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-data\-trans
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-par
.PP
If you do not specify a path, the file is placed in the current working
directory.
.NL
.PP
If there is already a file named 
\fIfilename\fR, it will be
overwritten.
.NL
.PP
You can include a file extension in 
\fIfilename\fR. For
example, if 
\fIfile.txt\fR is specified, the name of the output file is 
\fIfile.txt\fR. If you do not provide a file extension, the name
of the file is 
\fIfilename.guide\fR.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify 
\fIfilename\fR, the name
of the file is 
\fIname\-of\-the\-first\-source\-file.guide\fR. This is also the name
of the file if the name specified for 
\fIfilename\fR conflicts with a source file name provided in the
command line.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify the 
[Q]guide\-file option and you also specify option 
[Q]guide\-file\-append, the last option specified on the
command line takes precedence.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-file\-append[=filename]
.RS
.TP
Causes the results of guided auto parallelism to be appended to a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file to be appended to. It can include a path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Messages that are generated by guided auto parallelism are
output to stderr.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the results of guided auto parallelism to be appended to a file.
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you also specify
one or more of the following options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-vec
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-data\-trans
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-par
.PP
If you do not specify a path, the compiler
looks for \fIfilename\fR in the current working directory.
.NL
.PP
If \fIfilename\fR is not found, then a new file with
that name is created in the current working directory.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify a file extension, the
name of the file is \fIfilename.guide\fR.
.NL
.PP
If the name specified for \fIfilename\fR conflicts
with a source file name provided in the command line, the name of
the file is \fIname\-of\-the\-first\-source\-file.guide\fR.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify the [Q]guide\-file\-append
option
and you also specify option  [Q]guide\-file, the last option specified on the command line takes precedence.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-opts=string
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to analyze certain
code and generate recommendations that may improve optimizations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIstring\fR
.NL
Is the text denoting the code to analyze. The
string must appear within quotes. It can take one or more of the following
forms: 
\fIfilename\fR\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIroutine\fR\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIrange\fR [, 
\fIrange\fR]... 
\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIroutine\fR, 
\fIrange\fR [, 
\fIrange\fR]... 
.IP
If you specify more than one of the above forms in
a string, a semicolon must appear between each form. If you specify more than
one 
\fIrange\fR in a string, a comma must appear between each 
\fIrange\fR. Optional blanks can follow each parameter in
the forms above and they can also follow each form in a string. 
.RS
.TP 15
\fIfilename\fR
Specifies the name of a file to be analyzed. It can include a
path. 
.IP
If you do not specify a path, the compiler looks for filename
in the current working directory. 
.TP 15
\fIroutine\fR
Specifies the name of a routine to be analyzed. You can include
an identifying argument. 
.IP
The name, including any argument, must be
enclosed in single quotes. 
.IP
The compiler tries to uniquely identify the routine that
corresponds to the specified routine name. It may select multiple routines to
analyze, especially if the following is true: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
More than one routine has the specified
routine name, so the routine cannot be uniquely identified. 
.IP \(bu 2
No argument information has
been specified to narrow the number of routines selected as matches. 
.RE
.TP 15
\fIrange\fR
Specifies a range of line numbers to analyze in the file or
routine specified. The 
\fIrange\fR must be specified in integers in the
form: 
.IP
\fIfirst_line_number\-last_line_number\fR
.IP
The hyphen between the line numbers is required. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
You do not receive guidance on how to improve
optimizations. However, if you specify the 
[Q]guide option, the compiler analyzes and generates
recommendations for all the code in an application 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to analyze certain code and generate
recommendations that may improve optimizations. 
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored unless you also specify one or more of the following
options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-vec
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-data\-trans
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]guide\-par
.PP
When the 
[Q]guide\-opts option is specified, a message is output that
includes which parts of the input files are being analyzed. If a routine is
selected to be analyzed, the complete routine name will appear in the generated
message. 
.NL
.PP
When inlining is involved, you should specify callee line numbers.
Generated messages also use callee line numbers. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-par[=n]
.RS
.TP
Lets you set a level of guidance for auto parallelism.  
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional value specifying the level of guidance to be provided.
.IP
The values available are 1 through 4. Value 1 indicates a standard level of guidance. Value 4 indicates the most advanced level of guidance. If \fIn\fR is omitted, the default is 4.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
You do not receive guidance about how to improve optimizations for parallelism.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you set a level of guidance
for auto parallelism. It causes the compiler to generate
messages suggesting ways to improve that optimization.
.NL
.PP
You must also specify the [Q]parallel option to receive auto parallelism
guidance.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-profile=filename|dir [, [filename|dir]...]
.RS
.TP
Specifies a loop profiler data file (or a set of files) when used with option \-guide or /Qguide.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is an .xml file created from a loop profiler run.
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is a directory that contains one or more .xml files from a loop profiler run.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
When the [Q]guide option is specified, the guide region is the whole file or the region specified by option [Q]guide\-opts.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies a loop profiler data file
(or a set of files) when used with the [Q]guide option.
.NL
.PP
This option has no effect unless the [Q]guide option has been specified. Option [Q]guide\-profile
helps you take advantage of the [Q]guide option to more efficiently optimize
your applications for
auto parallelism and/or vectorization.
.NL
.PP
The loop profile data file can be collected by
using one of the following options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]profile\-loops
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]profile\-functions
.PP
When the data is from [Q]profile\-loops, the setting of the guide regions will be based
upon the hottest loops.
.NL
.PP
When the data is from [Q]profile\-functions, the guide region will be the entire function
containing the hottest functions.
.NL
.PP
If you specify options [Q]guide\-opts and
[Q]guide\-profile, the compiler issues an error
message.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-guide\-vec[=n]
.RS
.TP
Lets you set a level of guidance for auto\-vectorization.  
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional value specifying the level of guidance to be provided.
.IP
The values available are 1 through 4. Value 1 indicates a standard level of guidance. Value 4 indicates the most advanced level of guidance. If \fIn\fR is omitted, the default is 4.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
You do not receive guidance about how to improve optimizations for vectorization.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you set a level of guidance
for auto\-vectorization. It causes the compiler to generate
messages suggesting ways to improve that optimization.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-gxx\-name=name (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify the name of the g++ compiler that should be used to set up the link\-time environment, including the location of standard libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIname\fR
.NL
Is the name of the g++ compiler to use.  It can include the path where the g++ compiler is located.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses the PATH setting to find the g++ compiler and resolve environment settings.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify the name of the g++ compiler that should be used to set up the link\-time environment, including the location of standard libraries.  If you do not specify a path, the compiler will search the PATH settings for the compiler name you provide.
.NL
.PP
This option is helpful if you have multiple gcc++ installations on your system. The compiler will match gcc++ version values to the gcc++ compiler you specify.
.NL
.PP
The C equivalent to option \-gxx\-name is \-gcc\-name.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
When compiling a C++ file with icc, g++ is used to get the environment.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-heap\-arrays [size]
.TP
.B
\-no\-heap\-arrays
.RS
.TP
Puts automatic arrays and arrays created
for temporary computations on the heap instead of the stack. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
size
.NL
Is an integer value representing the size of the
arrays in kilobytes. Arrays smaller than 
\fIsize\fR are put
on the stack. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-heap\-arrays
.NL
The compiler puts automatic arrays and temporary
arrays in the stack storage area. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option puts automatic arrays and arrays created for
temporary computations on the heap instead of the stack. 
.NL
.PP
When this option is specified, automatic (temporary)
arrays that have a compile\-time size greater than the value specified for 
\fIsize\fR are put on the
heap, rather than on the stack. If the compiler cannot determine the size at
compile time, it always puts the automatic array on the heap. 
.NL
.PP
If 
\fIsize\fR is specified,
the value is only used when the total size of the temporary array or automatic
array can be determined at compile time, using compile\-time constants. Any
arrays known at compile\-time to be larger than 
\fIsize\fR are allocated
on the heap instead of the stack. For example, if 10 is specified for 
\fIsize\fR: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
All automatic and temporary arrays equal to or larger
than 10 KB are put on the heap. 
.IP \(bu 2
All automatic and temporary arrays smaller than 10 KB
are put on the stack. 
.PP
If 
\fIsize\fR is omitted, and
the size of the temporary array or automatic array cannot be determined at
compile time, it is assumed that the total size is greater than 
\fIsize\fR and the array
is allocated on the heap. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-help[category]
.RS
.TP
Displays all available compiler options or a category of compiler options.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIcategory\fR
.NL
Is a category or class of options to display. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
advanced
Displays advanced optimization options that allow fine tuning of compilation or allow control over advanced features of the compiler.
.TP 15
codegen
Displays Code Generation options.
.TP 15
compatibility
Displays options affecting language compatibility.
.TP 15
component
Displays options for component control.
.TP 15
data
Displays options related to interpretation of data in programs or the storage of data.
.TP 15
deprecated
Displays options that have been deprecated.
.TP 15
diagnostics
Displays options that affect diagnostic messages displayed by the compiler.
.TP 15
float
Displays options that affect floating\-point operations.
.TP 15
help
Displays all the available help categories.
.TP 15
inline
Displays options that affect inlining.
.TP 15
ipo
Displays Interprocedural Optimization (IPO) options
.TP 15
language
Displays options affecting the behavior of the compiler language features.
.TP 15
link
Displays linking or linker options.
.TP 15
misc
Displays miscellaneous options that do not fit within other categories.
.TP 15
openmp
Displays OpenMP and parallel processing options.
.TP 15
opt
Displays options that help you optimize code.
.TP 15
output
Displays options that provide control over compiler output.
.TP 15
pgo
Displays Profile Guided Optimization (PGO) options.
.TP 15
preproc
Displays options that affect preprocessing operations.
.TP 15
reports
Displays options for optimization reports.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No list is displayed unless this compiler option is specified.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option displays all available compiler options or a category of compiler options. If category is not specified, all available compiler options are displayed. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Idir
.RS
.TP
Specifies an additional directory for the
include path.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
dir
.NL
Is the directory to add to the include path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The default include path is used.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies an additional directory for the
include path, which is searched for module files referenced in USE statements
and include files referenced in INCLUDE statements. To specify multiple
directories on the command line, repeat the option for each directory you want
to add.
.NL
.PP
For all USE statements and for those INCLUDE statements
whose file name does not begin with a device or directory name, the directories
are searched in this order:
.NL
.IP 1) 4n 
.IP
The directory containing the first source file.
.IP
Note that if 
assume nosource_include
is specified, this directory will not be searched.
.IP 2) 4n 
.IP
The current working directory where the compilation is
taking place (if different from the above directory).
.IP 3) 4n 
.IP
Any directory or directories specified using the I
option. If multiple directories are specified, they are searched in the order
specified on the command line, from left to right.
.IP 4) 4n 
.IP
On Linux* and OS X* systems, any directories indicated
using environment variable CPATH. On Windows* systems, any directories
indicated using environment variable INCLUDE.
.PP
This option affects fpp preprocessor behavior and the USE
statement.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-idirafterdir
.RS
.TP
Adds a directory to the second include file search path.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the name of the directory to add.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Include file search paths include certain default directories.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option adds a directory to the second include file search path (after \-I).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to link to the IMSL*
Fortran Numerical Library*(IMSL* library).
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not link to the IMSL* library.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to link to the IMSL*
Fortran Numerical Library* (IMSL* library). This option is applicable for users
of editions of the Intel(R) Fortran Compiler product that include the IMSL*
libraries.
.NL
.PP
This option is processed by the compiler, which adds
directives to the compiled object file that are processed by the linker.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-init=keyword
.RS
.TP
Lets you initialize a class of variables
to zero or to signaling NaN. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR [Q]init keyword snan: Not available on Intel(R) 64
architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the initial value for a class of
variables. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
[no]arrays
Determines whether the compiler initializes
variables that are arrays or scalars. Specifying 
arrays initializes variables that are arrays
or scalars. Specifying 
noarrays initializes only variables that are
scalars. You must also specify either 
[Q]init snan or 
[Q]init zero when you specify 
[Q]init [no]arrays. 
.TP 15
[no]snan
Determines whether the compiler initializes
to signaling NaN all uninitialized variables of intrinsic type REAL or COMPLEX
that are saved, local, automatic, or allocated variables. 
.TP 15
[no]zero
Determines whether the compiler initializes to zero all
uninitialized variables of intrinsic type REAL, COMPLEX, INTEGER, or LOGICAL
that are saved, local, automatic, or allocated variables. 
.IP
Option 
/Qinit:[no]zero replaces option 
/Qzero[\-] (Windows*) , and option 
\-init=[no]zero replaces option 
\-[no]zero (Linux* and OS X*). 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No initializations are performed by default if you
do not specify any of these options. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you initialize a class of variables to
zero or to signaling NaN. 
.NL
.PP
If you only specify option 
\-init=zero or 
\-init=snan (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinit:zero or 
/Qinit:snan (Windows*), it affects only scalar variables. To
apply the initialization to arrays as well, you must also specify option 
\-init=arrays (Linux* and OS X*) or 
Qinit:arrays (Windows*). 
.NL
.PP
If you specify both 
[Q]init snan and 
[Q]init zero, then certain variables of REAL and COMPLEX type
are initialized to signaling NaN and certain variables of INTEGER and LOGICAL
type are initialized to zero. 
.NL
.PP
The following classes of variables are affected by the 
[Q]init option: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Variables of intrinsic numeric type, that is, of type
COMPLEX, INTEGER, LOGICAL, or REAL, of any KIND 
.IP \(bu 2
SAVEd scalar or array variables, not in the main
program, that are not initialized in the source code 
.IP \(bu 2
Local scalars and arrays 
.IP \(bu 2
Module variables that are not initialized in the
source code 
.IP \(bu 2
Automatic arrays 
.IP \(bu 2
Variables with the POINTER or ALLOCATABLE attribute 
.IP \(bu 2
In a user\-defined type, components that have the
POINTER or ALLOCATABLE attribute may be initialized with option 
[Q]init
.PP
The following are general restrictions for this option: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]init snan only affects certain
variables of REAL or COMPLEX type. 
.IP \(bu 2
You cannot initialize variables in equivalence groups
to signaling NaN values. 
.IP \(bu 2
In an equivalence group, if no member of that
equivalence group has an explicit initialization or a default initialization
(in the case of a derived type), a variable in that equivalence group can be
initialized to zero. 
.IP \(bu 2
Derived types, arrays of derived types, 
and their components will not be initialized. 
.IP \(bu 2
Dummy arguments including
adjustable arrays will not be initialized. 
.IP \(bu 2
Variables in COMMON will not be initialized. 
.PP
If you specify 
[Q]init snan, the floating\-point exception handling flags will
be set to trap signaling NaN and halt so that when such a value is trapped at
run\-time, the Fortran library can catch the usage, display an error message
about a possible uninitialized variable, display a traceback, and stop
execution. You can use the debugger to determine where in your code this
uninitialized variable is being referenced when execution stops. 
.NL
.PP
Setting the option 
[Q]init snan implicitly sets the option 
fpe 0. A compile time warning will occur if you specify both
option 
fpe 3 and option 
[Q]init snan on the command line. In this case, 
fpe 3 is ignored. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you build with optimization, the compiler may
speculate floating\-point operations, assuming the default floating\-point
environment in which floating\-point exceptions are masked. When you add 
[Q]init snan, this speculation may result in exceptions,
unrelated to uninitialized variables, that now get trapped. To avoid this,
reduce the optimization level to 
/O1 or 
/Od (Windows*), or 
\-O1 or 
\-O0 (Linux* and OS X*) when doing uninitialized variable
detection. 
.PP
If you wish to maintain optimization, you should add
option 
[Q]fp\-speculation safe to disable speculation when there is
a possibility that the speculation may result in a floating\-point exception. 
.PP
On Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner),
you cannot specify 
[Q]init [no]snan, since trapping signaling snan is not
available. 
.NL
.PP
Use option 
[Q]save if you wish all variables to be specifically marked as
SAVE. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-factor=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-factor
.RS
.TP
Specifies the percentage multiplier that
should be applied to all inlining options that define upper limits.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer specifying the percentage
value. The default value is 100 (a factor of 1).
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-inline\-factor=100 
.NL
The compiler uses a percentage multiplier of 100.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the percentage multiplier that
should be applied to all inlining options that define upper limits:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]inline\-max\-size
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]inline\-max\-total\-size
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]inline\-max\-per\-routine
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]inline\-max\-per\-compile
.PP
The 
[Q]inline\-factor option
takes the default value for each of the above options and multiplies it by 
\fIn\fR divided by 100. For
example, if 200 is specified, all inlining options that define upper limits are
multiplied by a factor of 2. This option is useful if you do not want to
individually increase each option limit.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-factor (Linux*
and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-factor\-
(Windows*), the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Every function is considered to be a small or medium
function; there are no large functions.
.IP \(bu 2
There is no limit to the size a routine may grow when
inline expansion is performed.
.IP \(bu 2
There is no limit to the number of times some routine
may be inlined into a particular routine.
.IP \(bu 2
There is no limit to the number of times inlining can
be applied to a compilation unit.
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase default limits,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-forceinline
.RS
.TP
Instructs the compiler to force inlining of functions suggested for inlining whenever the compiler is capable doing so.
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for inline routine expansion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option instructs the compiler to force inlining of functions suggested for inlining whenever the compiler is capable doing so. 
.NL
.PP
Without this option, the compiler treats functions declared with an INLINE attribute as merely being recommended for inlining. When this option is used, it is as if they were declared with the directive !DIR$ ATTRIBUTES FORCEINLINE.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits, specify option [q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to change the meaning of inline to "forceinline", the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-level=n
.RS
.TP
Specifies the level of inline function
expansion.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the inline function expansion level. Possible
values are 0, 1, and 2.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-inline\-level=2
.NL
This is the default if option 
O2 is specified or
is in effect by default. On Windows* systems, this is also the default if
option 
O3 is specified.
.TP 18
\-inline\-level=0
.NL
This is the default if option 
\-O0 (Linux* and OS
X*) is specified.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the level of inline function
expansion. Inlining procedures can greatly improve the run\-time performance of
certain programs.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-inline\-level=0 or 
/Ob0
.NL
Disables inlining of user\-defined functions.
Note that statement functions are always inlined.
.NL
.TP 18
\-inline\-level=1 
or 
/Ob1
.NL
Enables inlining when an inline keyword or an
inline 
directive is specified.
.NL
.TP 18
\-inline\-level=2 
or 
/Ob2
.NL
Enables inlining of any function at the
compiler\[aq]s discretion.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-max\-per\-compile=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-compile
.RS
.TP
Specifies the maximum number of times
inlining may be applied to an entire compilation unit.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer that specifies the number of
times inlining may be applied.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-compile 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for inline
routine expansion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option the maximum number of times inlining may be
applied to an entire compilation unit. It limits the number of times that
inlining can be applied.
.NL
.PP
For compilations using Interprocedural Optimizations
(IPO), the entire compilation is a compilation unit. For other compilations, a
compilation unit is a file.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-compile
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-max\-per\-compile\-
(Windows*), there is no limit to the number of times inlining may be applied to
a compilation unit.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase the default limit,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-max\-per\-routine=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-routine
.RS
.TP
Specifies the maximum number of times the
inliner may inline into a particular routine.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer that specifies the maximum
number of times the inliner may inline into a particular routine.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-routine 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for inline
routine expansion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the maximum number of times the
inliner may inline into a particular routine. It limits the number of times
that inlining can be applied to any routine.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-max\-per\-routine
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-max\-per\-routine\-
(Windows*), there is no limit to the number of times some routine may be
inlined into a particular routine.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase the default limit,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-max\-size=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-max\-size
.RS
.TP
Specifies the lower limit for the size of
what the inliner considers to be a large routine.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer that specifies the minimum
size of what the inliner considers to be a large routine.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-inline\-max\-size 
.NL
The compiler sets the maximum size
(\fIn\fR) dynamically, based on the platform.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the lower limit for the size of
what the inliner considers to be a large routine (a function or subroutine). The inliner
classifies routines as small, medium, or large. This option specifies the
boundary between what the inliner considers to be medium and large\-size
routines.
.NL
.PP
The inliner prefers to inline small routines. It has a
preference against inlining large routines. So, any large routine is highly
unlikely to be inlined.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-max\-size
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-max\-size\-
(Windows*), there are no large routines. Every routine is either a small or
medium routine.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase the default limit,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-max\-total\-size=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-max\-total\-size
.RS
.TP
Specifies how much larger a routine can
normally grow when inline expansion is performed.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer that specifies the permitted
increase in the routine\[aq]s size when inline expansion is performed.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-inline\-max\-total\-size 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for inline
routine expansion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies how much larger a routine can
normally grow when inline expansion is performed. It limits the potential size
of the routine. For example, if 2000 is specified for 
\fIn\fR, the size of any
routine will normally not increase by more than 2000.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-max\-total\-size
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-max\-total\-size\-
(Windows*), there is no limit to the size a routine may grow when inline
expansion is performed.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase the default limit,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-inline\-min\-size=n
.TP
.B
\-no\-inline\-min\-size
.RS
.TP
Specifies the upper limit for the size of
what the inliner considers to be a small routine.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer that specifies the maximum
size of what the inliner considers to be a small routine.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-inline\-min\-size 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for inline
routine expansion.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the upper limit for the size of
what the inliner considers to be a small routine (a function or subroutine). The inliner
classifies routines as small, medium, or large. This option specifies the
boundary between what the inliner considers to be small and medium\-size
routines.
.NL
.PP
The inliner has a preference to inline small routines.
So, when a routine is smaller than or equal to the specified size, it is very
likely to be inlined.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-inline\-min\-size
(Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinline\-min\-size\-
(Windows*), there is no limit to the size of small routines. Every routine is a
small routine; there are no medium or large routines.
.NL
.PP
To see compiler values for important inlining limits,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
When you use this option to increase the default limit,
the compiler may do so much additional inlining that it runs out of memory and
terminates with an "out of memory" message.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-intconstant
.TP
.B
\-nointconstant
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to use FORTRAN 77 semantics to determine the kind parameter for integer constants.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nointconstant
.NL
The compiler uses the Fortran 2003 default INTEGER type.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to use FORTRAN 77 semantics to determine the kind parameter for integer constants.
.NL
.PP
With FORTRAN 77 semantics, the kind is determined by the value of the constant. All constants are kept internally by the compiler in the highest precision possible. For example, if you specify option intconstant, the compiler stores an integer constant of 14 internally as INTEGER(KIND=8) and converts the constant upon reference to the corresponding proper size. Fortran 2003 specifies that integer constants with no explicit KIND are kept internally in the default INTEGER kind (KIND=4 by default).
.NL
.PP
Note that the internal precision for floating\-point constants is controlled by option \fIfpconstant\fR.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-integer\-size size
.RS
.TP
Specifies the default KIND for integer and logical variables.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
size
.NL
Is the size for integer and logical variables. Possible values are: 16, 32, or 64.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
integer\-size 32
.NL
Integer and logical variables are 4 bytes long (INTEGER(KIND=4) and LOGICAL(KIND=4)).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the default size (in bits) for integer and logical variables.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
integer\-size 16
.NL
Makes default integer and logical declarations, constants,
functions, and intrinsics 2 bytes long. INTEGER and LOGICAL declarations are treated as (KIND=2). Integer and logical constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in INTEGER (KIND=2) and LOGICAL(KIND=2)respectively.
.NL
.TP 18
integer\-size 32
.NL
Makes default integer and logical declarations, constants,
functions, and intrinsics 4 bytes long. INTEGER and LOGICAL declarations are treated as (KIND=4). Integer and logical constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in INTEGER (KIND=4) and LOGICAL(KIND=4)respectively.
.NL
.TP 18
integer\-size 64
.NL
Makes default integer and logical declarations, constants,
functions, and intrinsics 8 bytes long. INTEGER and LOGICAL declarations are treated as (KIND=8). Integer and logical constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in INTEGER (KIND=8) and LOGICAL(KIND=8)respectively.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
integer\-size 16
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-i2
.TP 18
integer\-size 32
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-i4
.TP 18
integer\-size 64
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-i8
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ip
.TP
.B
\-no\-ip
.RS
.TP
Determines whether additional
interprocedural optimizations for single\-file compilation are enabled.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Some limited interprocedural optimizations occur,
including inline function expansion for calls to functions defined within the
current source file. These optimizations are a subset of full intra\-file
interprocedural optimizations. Note that this setting is not the same as 
\-no\-ip (Linux* and
OS X*).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether additional interprocedural
optimizations for single\-file compilation are enabled. 
.NL
.PP
The 
[Q]ip option enables
additional interprocedural optimizations for single\-file compilation. 
.NL
.PP
Options 
\-no\-ip (Linux and OS X)
and 
/Qip\- (Windows) may not
disable inlining. To ensure that inlining of user\-defined functions is
disabled, specify 
\-inline\-level=0or 
\-fno\-inline (Linux and OS
X), or specify 
/Ob0 (Windows). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ip\-no\-inlining
.RS
.TP
Disables full and partial inlining enabled by interprocedural optimization options.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Inlining enabled by interprocedural optimization options is performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option disables full and partial inlining enabled by the following interprocedural optimization options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems: \-ip or \-ipo
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems: /Qip, /Qipo, or /Ob2
.PP
It has no effect on other interprocedural optimizations.
.NL
.PP
On Windows systems, this option also has no effect on user\-directed inlining specified by option /Ob1.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ip\-no\-pinlining
.RS
.TP
Disables partial inlining enabled by interprocedural optimization options.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Inlining enabled by interprocedural optimization options is performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option disables partial inlining enabled by the following interprocedural optimization options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems: \-ip or \-ipo
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems: /Qip or /Qipo
.PP
It has no effect on other interprocedural optimizations.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ipo[n]
.TP
.B
\-no\-ipo
.RS
.TP
Enables interprocedural optimization between files.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an optional integer that specifies the number of object files the compiler should create. The integer must be greater than or equal to 0.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-ipo or /Qipo\-
.NL
Multifile interprocedural optimization is not enabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables interprocedural optimization between files. This is also called multifile interprocedural optimization (multifile IPO) or Whole Program Optimization (WPO).
.NL
.PP
When you specify this option, the compiler performs inline function expansion for calls to functions defined in separate files.
.NL
.PP
You cannot specify the names for the files that are created.
.NL
.PP
If \fIn\fR is 0, the compiler decides whether to create one or more object files based on an estimate of the size of the application. It generates one object file for small applications, and two or more object files for large applications.
.NL
.PP
If \fIn\fR is greater than 0, the compiler generates \fIn\fR object files, unless \fIn\fR exceeds the number of source files (\fIm\fR), in which case the compiler generates only \fIm\fR object files.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify \fIn\fR, the default is 0.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ipo\-c
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to optimize across multiple files and generate a single object file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not generate a multifile object file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to optimize across multiple files and generate a single object file (named ipo_out.o
on Linux* and OS X* systems; ipo_out.obj
on Windows* systems).
.NL
.PP
It performs the same optimizations as the [Q]ipo option, but compilation stops before the final link stage, leaving an optimized object file that can be used in further link steps.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ipo\-jobsn
.RS
.TP
Specifies the number of commands (jobs) to be executed simultaneously during the link phase of Interprocedural Optimization (IPO).
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the number of commands (jobs) to run simultaneously. The number must be greater than or equal to 1.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-ipo\-jobs1 
.NL
One command (job) is executed in an interprocedural optimization parallel build.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the number of commands (jobs) to be executed simultaneously during the link phase of Interprocedural Optimization (IPO). It should only be used if the link\-time compilation is generating more than one object. In this case, each object is generated by a separate compilation, which can be done in parallel.
.NL
.PP
This option can be affected by the following compiler options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]ipo when applications are large enough that the compiler decides to generate multiple object files.
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]ipo\fIn\fR when \fIn\fR is greater than 1.
.IP \(bu 2
[Q]ipo\-separate
.PP
.B CAUTION:
Be careful when using this option. On a multi\-processor system with lots of memory, it can speed application build time. However, if \fIn\fR is greater than the number of processors, or if there is not enough memory to avoid thrashing, this option can increase application build time.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ipo\-S
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to optimize across multiple files and generate a single assembly file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not generate a multifile assembly file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to optimize across multiple files and generate a single assembly file (named ipo_out.s on Linux* and OS X* systems; ipo_out.asm
on Windows* systems). 
.NL
.PP
It performs the same optimizations as the [Q]ipo option, but compilation stops before the final link stage, leaving an optimized assembly file that can be used in further link steps.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-ipo\-separate (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate one object file for every source file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler decides whether to create one or more object files.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate one object file for every source file. It overrides any [Q]ipo option  specification.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-isystemdir
.RS
.TP
Specifies a directory to add to the start
of the system include path.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR  Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the directory to add to the system include path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The default system include path is used.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies a directory to add to the system
include path. The compiler searches the specified directory for include files
after it searches all directories specified by the 
\-I compiler option but
before it searches the standard system directories. 
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, this option is provided for
compatibility with gcc.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-lstring
.RS
.TP
Tells the linker to search for a specified library when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIstring\fR
.NL
Specifies the library (lib\fIstring\fR) that the linker should search.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The linker searches for standard libraries in standard directories.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the linker to search for a specified library when linking.
.NL
.PP
When resolving references, the linker normally searches for libraries in several standard directories, in directories specified by the L option, then in the library specified by the l option.
.NL
.PP
The linker searches and processes libraries and object files in the order they are specified. So, you should specify this option following the last object file it applies to.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Ldir
.RS
.TP
Tells the linker to search for libraries in a specified directory before searching the standard directories.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the name of the directory to search for libraries.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The linker searches the standard directories for libraries.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the linker to search for libraries in a specified directory before searching for them in the standard directories.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-list[=filename]
.TP
.B
\-no\-list
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to create a listing of
the source file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file for output. It can include
a path.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-list
or 
/list\-
.NL
No listing is created for the source file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to create a listing of the source file. The
listing contains the following: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The contents of files included with INCLUDE statements
.IP \(bu 2
A symbol list with a line number cross\-reference for each routine
.IP \(bu 2
A list of compiler options used for the current compilation
.PP
The contents of the listing can be controlled by specifying option 
show.
.NL
.PP
The line length of the listing can be specified by using option 
list\-line\-len.
.NL
.PP
The page length of the listing can be specified by using option 
list\-page\-len.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify 
\fIfilename\fR, the output is written to a file in the same
directory as the source. The file name is the name of the source file with an
extension of .lst. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-list\-line\-len=n
.RS
.TP
Specifies the line length for the listing generated when option list is specified.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer indicating the number of columns to show in
the listing.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
80
.NL
When a listing is generated, the default line length is 80 columns.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the line length for the
listing generated when option list is specified.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option list\-line\-len and do not
specify option list, the option is ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-list\-page\-len=n
.RS
.TP
Specifies the page length for the listing generated when option list is specified.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer indicating the number of lines on a page to show in
the listing.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
60
.NL
When a listing is generated, the default page length is 60 lines.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the page length for the
listing generated when option list is specified.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option list\-page\-len and do not
specify option list, the option is ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-logo
.TP
.B
\-nologo
.RS
.TP
Displays the compiler version
information.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Linux* and OS X*: 
nologo
.NL
The compiler version information is not displayed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option displays the startup banner, which contains
the following compiler information:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The name of the compiler and its applicable
architecture
.IP \(bu 2
The major and minor version of the compiler, the
update number, and the package number(for example, Version 11.1.0.047) 
.IP \(bu 2
The specific build and build date (for example, Build
<builddate>)
.IP \(bu 2
The copyright date of the software
.PP
This option can be placed anywhere on the command line.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-V
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mcode
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler which features it may
target, including which instruction sets it may generate. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIcode\fR
.NL
Indicates to the compiler a feature set that it may target, including
which instruction sets it may generate. Many of the following descriptions
refer to Intel(R) Streaming SIMD Extensions (Intel(R) SSE) and Supplemental
Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSSE). Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
avx
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3
instructions. 
.TP 15
sse4.2
May generate Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3,
SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
sse4.1
May generate Intel(R) SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE,
and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
ssse3
May generate SSSE3 instructions and Intel(R)
SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions. 
.TP 15
sse3
May generate Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE
instructions. 
.TP 15
sse2
May generate Intel(R) SSE2 and SSE
instructions. This value is only available on Linux systems. 
.TP 15
sse
This option has been deprecated; it is now
the same as specifying 
ia32. 
.TP 15
ia32
Generates x86/x87 generic code that is
compatible with IA\-32 architecture. Disables any default extended instruction
settings, and any previously set extended instruction settings. It also
disables all feature\-specific optimizations and instructions. This value is
only available on Linux* systems using IA\-32 architecture. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Linux* systems: 
\-msse2 OS X* systems using IA\-32
architecture: 
\-msse3 OS X* systems using Intel(R) 64
architecture: 
\-mssse3
.NL
For more information on the default values, see
Arguments above. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler which features it may
target, including which instruction sets it may generate. 
.NL
.PP
Code generated with these options should execute on any
compatible, non\-Intel processor with support for the corresponding instruction
set. 
.NL
.PP
Options 
\-x and 
\-m are mutually exclusive. If both are specified, the compiler
uses the last one specified and generates a warning. 
.NL
.PP
Linux* systems: For compatibility with gcc, the compiler
allows the following options but they have no effect. You will get a warning
error, but the instructions associated with the name will not be generated. You
should use the suggested replacement options. 
.NL
.TP 18
gcc Compatibility Option (Linux*) 
.NL
Suggested Replacement Option 
.NL
.TP 18
\-mfma
.NL
\-march=core\-avx2
.NL
.TP 18
\-mbmi, 
\-mavx2, 
\-mlzcnt
.NL
\-march=core\-avx2
.NL
.TP 18
\-mmovbe
.NL
\-march=atom \-minstruction=movbe
.NL
.TP 18
\-mcrc32, 
\-maes, 
\-mpclmul, 
\-mpopcnt
.NL
\-march=corei7
.NL
.TP 18
\-mvzeroupper
.NL
\-march=corei7\-avx
.NL
.TP 18
\-mfsgsbase, 
\-mrdrnd, 
\-mf16c
.NL
\-march=core\-avx\-i
.NL
.PP
Many of the
above gcc options are not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-m32
.TP
.B
\-m64
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate code for a
specific architecture.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler\[aq]s behavior depends on the host system.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
These options tell the compiler to generate code for a
specific architecture.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-m32 or 
/Qm32
.NL
Tells the compiler to generate code for IA\-32
architecture.
.NL
.TP 18
\-m64 or 
/Qm64
.NL
Tells the compiler to generate code for Intel(R)
64 architecture.
.NL
.PP
The 
\-m32 and 
\-m64 options are the same
as OS X* options 
\-arch i386 and 
\-arch x86_64,
respectively. These options are not related to the Intel(R) 
Fortran 
Compiler option 
arch.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, these options are provided for
compatibility with gcc. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-m80387
.TP
.B
\-mno\-80387
.RS
.TP
Specifies whether the compiler can use
x87 instructions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-m80387
.NL
The compiler may use x87 instructions. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies whether the compiler can use x87 instructions. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify option 
\-mno\-80387, it prevents the compiler from using x87
instructions. If the compiler is forced to generate x87 instructions, it issues
an error message. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
\-m[no\-]x87 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-map\-opts (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Maps one or more compiler options to their equivalent on a different operating system.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No platform mappings are performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option maps one or more compiler options to their equivalent on a different operating system. The result is output to stdout. 
.NL
.PP
On Windows systems, the options you provide are presumed to be Windows options, so the options that are output to stdout will be Linux equivalents.
.NL
.PP
On Linux systems, the options you provide are presumed to be Linux options, so the options that are output to stdout will be Windows equivalents.
.NL
.PP
The tool can be invoked from the compiler command line or it can be used directly. 
.NL
.PP
No compilation is performed when the option mapping tool is used.
.NL
.PP
This option is useful if you have both compilers and want to convert scripts or makefiles.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Compiler options are mapped to their equivalent on the architecture you are using. For example, if you are using a processor with IA\-32 architecture, you will only see equivalent options that are available on processors with IA\-32 architecture.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-march=processor
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate code for
processors that support certain features. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIprocessor\fR
.NL
Indicates to the compiler the code it may generate.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
generic
Generates code for the compiler\[aq]s default
behavior. 
.TP 15
broadwell haswell 
ivybridge 
knl 
sandybridge silvermont skylake
Optimizes code for processors
that support the specified Intel(R) microarchitecture code name. 
.IP
Keywords 
knl and 
silvermont are only available on Linux*
systems. 
.TP 15
core\-avx2
Generates code for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 2 (Intel(R) AVX2), Intel(R) AVX, SSE4.2, SSE4.1,
SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
core\-avx\-i
Generates code for processors that support 
the RDRND instruction, Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions
(Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
corei7\-avx
Generates code for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3,
SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
corei7
Generates code for processors that support
Intel(R) SSE4 Efficient Accelerated String and Text Processing instructions. May
also generate code for Intel(R) SSE4 Vectorizing Compiler and Media Accelerator,
Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
atom
Generates code for processors that support
MOVBE instructions, depending on the setting of option 
\-minstruction (Linux* and OS X*) or
/Qinstruction (Windows*). May also generate code for SSSE3
instructions and Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions. 
.TP 15
core2
Generates code for the Intel(R) Core(TM) 2
processor family. 
.TP 15
pentium\-mmx
Generates for Intel(R) Pentium(R) with MMX
technology. 
.TP 15
pentiumpro
Generates for Intel(R) Pentium(R) Pro, Intel
Pentium II, and Intel Pentium III processors. 
.TP 15
pentium4m
Generates for Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 processors
with MMX technology. 
.TP 15
pentium\-m pentium4 pentium3 pentium
Generates code for Intel(R) Pentium(R)
processors. Value 
pentium3 is only
available on Linux* systems. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
pentium4
.NL
If no architecture option is specified, value 
pentium4 is used by the
compiler to generate code. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate code for
processors that support certain features. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify both the 
\-ax and 
\-march options, the compiler will not generate Intel\-specific
instructions. 
.NL
.PP
Specifying 
\-march=pentium4 sets 
\-mtune=pentium4. 
.NL
.PP
For compatibility, a number of historical 
\fIprocessor\fR values are
also supported, but the generated code will not differ from the default. 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
\-march=pentium3
.NL
Linux: 
\-xSSE
.IP
OS X: None 
.TP 18
\-march=pentium4 \-march=pentium\-m
.NL
Linux: 
\-xSSE2
.IP
OS X: None 
.TP 18
\-march=core2
.NL
Linux: 
\-xSSSE3
.IP
OS X: None 
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mcmodel=mem_model (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to use a specific memory model to generate code and store data.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fImem_model\fR
.NL
Is the memory model to use. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
small
Tells the compiler to restrict code and data to the first 2GB of address space. All accesses of code and data can be done with Instruction Pointer (IP)\-relative addressing.
.TP 15
medium
Tells the compiler to restrict code to the first 2GB; it places no memory restriction on data. Accesses of code can be done with IP\-relative addressing, but accesses of data must be done with absolute addressing.
.TP 15
large
Places no memory restriction on code or data. All accesses of code and data must be done with absolute addressing.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-mcmodel=small
.NL
On systems using Intel(R) 64 architecture, the compiler restricts code and data to the first 2GB of address space. Instruction Pointer (IP)\-relative addressing can be used to access code and data.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to use a specific memory model to generate code and store data. It can affect code size and performance. If your program has COMMON blocks and local data with a total size smaller than 2GB, \-mcmodel=small is sufficient. COMMONs larger than 2GB require\-mcmodel=medium or \-mcmodel=large. 
Allocation of memory larger than 2GB can be done with any setting of \-mcmodel.
.NL
.PP
IP\-relative addressing requires only 32 bits, whereas absolute addressing requires 64\-bits. IP\-relative addressing is somewhat faster. So, the small memory model has the least impact on performance.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
When you specify option \-mcmodel=medium or \-mcmodel=large, it sets option \-shared\-intel. This ensures that the correct dynamic versions of the Intel run\-time libraries are used.
.PP
If you specify option \-static\-intel while \-mcmodel=medium or \-mcmodel=large is set, an error will be displayed.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mdynamic\-no\-pic (M*X only)
.RS
.TP
Generates code that is not
position\-independent but has position\-independent external references. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR  Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
All references are generated as position
independent. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option generates code that is not
position\-independent but has position\-independent external references. 
.NL
.PP
The generated code is suitable for building executables,
but it is not suitable for building shared libraries. 
.NL
.PP
This option may reduce code size and produce more
efficient code. It overrides the 
\-fpic compiler option. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-minstruction=[no]movbe
.RS
.TP
Determines whether MOVBE instructions are
generated for certain Intel processors.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
minstruction=nomovbe 
.NL
The compiler does not generate MOVBE instructions
for Intel(R) Atom(TM) processors.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether MOVBE instructions are
generated for Intel(R) Atom(TM) processors. To use this option, you must also
specify 
[Q]xATOM_SSSE3 or 
[Q]xATOM_SSE4.2.
.NL
.PP
If 
\-minstruction=movbe or 
/Qinstruction:movbe is
specified, the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
MOVBE instructions are generated that are specific to
the Intel(R) Atom(TM) processor.
.IP \(bu 2
Generated executables can only be run on Intel(R) Atom(TM)
processors or processors that support Supplemental Streaming SIMD Extensions 3
(Intel(R) SSSE3) or Intel(R) Streaming SIMD Extensions 4.2 (Intel(R) SSE4.2) and
MOVBE.
.PP
If 
\-minstruction=nomovbe or 
/Qinstruction:nomovbe is
specified, the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The compiler optimizes code for the Intel(R) Atom(TM)
processor, but it does not generate MOVBE instructions.
.IP \(bu 2
Generated executables can be run on non\-Intel(R) Atom(TM)
processors that support Intel(R) SSE3 or Intel(R) SSE4.2.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mkl[=lib]
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to link to certain
libraries in the Intel(R) Math Kernel Library (Intel(R) MKL). On Windows systems,
you must specify this option at compile time. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIlib\fR
.NL
Indicates which Intel(R) MKL library files should be
linked. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
parallel
Tells the compiler to link using the threaded
libraries in the Intel(R) MKL. This is the default if the option is specified
with no 
\fIlib\fR. 
.TP 15
sequential
Tells the compiler to link using the
sequential libraries in the Intel(R) MKL. 
.TP 15
cluster
Tells the compiler to link using the
cluster\-specific libraries and the sequential libraries in the Intel(R) MKL. 
Cluster\-specific libraries are
not available for OS X*.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not link to the Intel(R) MKL. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to link to certain
libraries in the Intel(R) Math Kernel Library (Intel(R) MKL). 
.NL
.PP
On Linux* and OS X* systems, dynamic linking is the
default when you specify 
\-mkl. To link with Intel(R) MKL statically, you must specify: 
.NL
.PP
\-mkl \-static\-intel
.PP
.PP
On Windows* systems, static linking is the default when
you specify 
/Qmkl. To link with Intel(R) MKL dynamically, you must specify: 
.NL
.PP
/Qmkl /libs:dll or /Qmkl /MD
.PP
.PP
For more information about using MKL libraries, see the
article in Intel(R) Developer Zone titled: 
Intel(R) Math Kernel Library Link Line Advisor, which is located
in https://software.intel.com/en\-us/articles/intel\-mkl\-link\-line\-advisor . 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Windows* systems, this option adds directives to the
compiled code, which the linker then reads without further input from the
driver. On Linux* and OS X systems, the driver must add the library names
explicitly to the link command. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify option 
[Q]mkl or 
[Q]mkl=parallel, and you also specify option 
[Q]tbb, the compiler links to the standard threaded version
of the Intel(R) MKL. However, if you specify 
[Q]mkl or 
[Q]mkl=parallel, and you also specify option 
[Q]tbb and option 
[q or Q]openmp, the compiler links to the OpenMP* threaded
version of the Intel(R) MKL. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mmic 
(L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Builds an application that runs natively
on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler builds a heterogeneous application.
You must specify this option to build an application that runs natively on
Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the cross compiler to build an
application that runs natively on Intel(R) MIC Architecture. It is only available
on the command line. 
.NL
.PP
When you use this option, the compiler defines the macro 
__MIC__. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
When you specify Windows* option 
/Qmic, you must specify any other options on the command
line in the Linux* form. This is because all other options are passed directly
to the native compiler for Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner),
which is a Windows*\-hosted Linux* compiler. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-module path
.RS
.TP
Specifies the directory where module files should be placed when created and where they should be searched for.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
path
.NL
Is the directory for module files.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler places module files in the current directory.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the directory (path) where module (.mod) files should be placed when created and where they should be searched for (USE statement).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-momit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.TP
.B
\-mno\-omit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the frame pointer is
omitted or kept in leaf functions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Varies
.NL
If you specify option 
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer (or it is set by default), the
default is 
\-momit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer. If you specify option 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer, the default is 
\-mno\-omit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer. 
.IP
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the frame pointer is omitted or kept in leaf
functions. It is related to option 
\-f[no\-]omit\-frame\-pointer and the setting for that option has
an effect on this option. 
.NL
.PP
Consider the following option combinations: 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption Combination 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBResult 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer \-momit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.TP 18
or 
.TP 18
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer
\-mno\-omit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.NL
Both combinations are the same as specifying 
\-fomit\-frame\-pointer. Frame pointers are omitted for
all routines. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer \-momit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.NL
In this case, the frame pointer is omitted for leaf routines, but
other routines will keep the frame pointer. 
.TP 18
This is the intended effect of option 
\-momit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer
\-mno\-omit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer
.NL
In this case, 
\-mno\-omit\-leaf\-frame\-pointer is ignored since 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer retains frame pointers in
all routines . 
.TP 18
This combination is the same as specifying 
\-fno\-omit\-frame\-pointer. 
.NL
.PP
This option is provided for compatibility with gcc. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mp1
.RS
.TP
Improves floating\-point precision and
consistency. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler provides good accuracy and run\-time
performance at the expense of less consistent floating\-point results. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option improves floating\-point consistency. It
ensures the out\-of\-range check of operands of transcendental functions and
improves the accuracy of floating\-point compares. 
.NL
.PP
This option prevents the compiler from performing
optimizations that change NaN comparison semantics and causes all values to be
truncated to declared precision before they are used in comparisons. It also
causes the compiler to use library routines that give better precision results
compared to the X87 transcendental instructions. 
.NL
.PP
This option disables fewer
optimizations and has less impact on performance than option 
fltconsistency. 
.NL
.PP
This option disables fewer optimizations and has less
impact on performance than option 
fltconsistency,\-fp\-model precise (Linux*
and OS X*), or option 
/fp:precise (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-mtune=processor
.RS
.TP
Performs optimizations for specific
processors. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIprocessor\fR
.NL
Is the processor for which the compiler should
perform optimizations. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
generic
Optimizes code for the compiler\[aq]s default
behavior. 
.TP 15
broadwell haswell 
ivybridge 
knl 
sandybridge silvermont skylake
Optimizes code for processors
that support the specified Intel(R) microarchitecture code name. 
.IP
Keywords 
knl and 
silvermont are only available on Windows* and
Linux* systems. 
.TP 15
core\-avx2
Optimizes code for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 2 (Intel(R) AVX2), Intel(R) AVX, SSE4.2, SSE4.1,
SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
core\-avx\-i
Optimizes code for processors that support 
the RDRND instruction, Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions
(Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
corei7\-avx
Optimizes code for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3,
SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
corei7
Optimizes code for processors that support
Intel(R) SSE4 Efficient Accelerated String and Text Processing instructions. May
also generate code for Intel(R) SSE4 Vectorizing Compiler and Media Accelerator,
Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 15
atom
Optimizes code for processors that support
MOVBE instructions, depending on the setting of option 
\-minstruction (Linux* and OS X*) or
/Qinstruction (Windows*). May also generate code for SSSE3
instructions and Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions. 
.TP 15
core2
Optimizes for the Intel(R) Core(TM) 2 processor
family, including support for MMX(TM), Intel(R) SSE, SSE2, SSE3 and SSSE3
instruction sets. 
.TP 15
pentium\-mmx
Optimizes for Intel(R) Pentium(R) with MMX
technology. 
.TP 15
pentiumpro
Optimizes for Intel(R) Pentium(R) Pro, Intel
Pentium II, and Intel Pentium III processors. 
.TP 15
pentium4m
Optimizes for Intel(R) Pentium(R) 4 processors
with MMX technology. 
.TP 15
pentium\-m pentium4 pentium3 pentium
Optimizes code for Intel(R) Pentium(R)
processors. Value 
pentium3 is only
available on Linux* systems. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
generic
.NL
Code is generated for the compiler\[aq]s default
behavior. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option performs optimizations for specific
processors. 
.NL
.PP
The resulting executable is backwards compatible and
generated code is optimized for specific processors. For example, code
generated with 
\-mtune=pentium4 will run
correctly on Core2 processors, but it might not run as fast as if it had been
generated using 
\-mtune=core2. 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
\-mtune
.NL
Linux: 
\-mcpu (this is a
deprecated option) 
.IP
OS X: None 
.RE
.TP
.B
\-multiple\-processes[=n]
.RS
.TP
Creates multiple processes that can be
used to compile large numbers of source files at the same time. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the maximum number of processes that the
compiler should create. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
A single process is used to compile source files. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option creates multiple processes that can be used
to compile large numbers of source files at the same time. It can improve
performance by reducing the time it takes to compile source files on the
command line. 
.NL
.PP
This option causes the compiler to create one or more
copies of itself, each in a separate process. These copies simultaneously
compile the source files. 
.NL
.PP
If 
\fIn\fR is not specified
for this option, the default value is as follows: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems, the value is based on the
setting of the NUMBER_OF_PROCESSORS environment variable. 
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems, the value is 2. 
.PP
This option applies to compilations, but not to linking
or link\-time code generation. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-names keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies how source code identifiers and external names are interpreted.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies how to interpret the identifiers and external names in source code. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
lowercase
Causes the compiler to ignore case differences in identifiers and to convert external names to lowercase.
.TP 15
uppercase
Causes the compiler to ignore case differences in identifiers and to convert external names to uppercase.
.TP 15
as_is
Causes the compiler to distinguish case differences in identifiers and to preserve the case of external names.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
lowercase
.NL
This is the default on Linux* and OS X* systems. The compiler ignores case differences in identifiers and converts external names to lowercase.
.TP 18
uppercase
.NL
This is the default on Windows* systems. The compiler ignores case differences in identifiers and converts external names to uppercase.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies how source code identifiers and external names are interpreted. It can be useful in mixed\-language programming.
.NL
.PP
This naming convention applies whether names are being defined or referenced.
.NL
.PP
You can use the ALIAS directive to specify an alternate external name to be used when referring to external subprograms.
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
On Windows systems, if you specify option /iface:cref, it overrides the default for external names and causes them to be lowercase. It is as if you specified "!dir$ attributes c, reference" for the external name.
.PP
If you specify option /iface:cref and want external names to be uppercase, you must explicitly specify option /names:uppercase.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-no\-bss\-init
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to place in the DATA section any uninitialized variables and explicitly zero\-initialized variables.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Uninitialized variables and explicitly zero\-initialized variables are placed in the BSS section.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to place in the DATA section any uninitialized variables and explicitly zero\-initialized variables.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-nodefaultlibs
.RS
.TP
Prevents the compiler from using standard libraries when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The standard libraries are linked.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prevents the compiler from using standard libraries when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-nofor\-main
.RS
.TP
Specifies that the main program is not written in Fortran.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler assumes the main program is written in Fortran.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that the main program is not written in Fortran. It is a link\-time option that prevents the compiler from linking for_main.o into applications. 
.NL
.PP
For example, if the main program is written in C and calls a Fortran subprogram, specify \-nofor\-main when compiling the program with the ifort command.
.NL
.PP
If you omit this option, the main program must be a Fortran program.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-nolib\-inline
.RS
.TP
Disables inline expansion of standard library or intrinsic functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler inlines many standard library and intrinsic functions.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option disables inline expansion of standard library or intrinsic functions. It prevents the unexpected results that can arise from inline expansion of these functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-nostartfiles
.RS
.TP
Prevents the compiler from using standard startup files when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses standard startup files when linking.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prevents the compiler from using standard startup files when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-nostdlib
.RS
.TP
Prevents the compiler from using standard libraries and startup files when linking.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses standard startup files and standard libraries when linking.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prevents the compiler from using standard libraries and startup files when linking. 
.NL
.PP
This option is not related to option \-stdlib.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-o
filename
.RS
.TP
Specifies the name for an output file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name for the output file. The space before 
\fIfilename\fR is
optional. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses the default file name for an
output file. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the name for an output file as
follows: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
If 
\-c is specified, it
specifies the name of the generated object file. 
.IP \(bu 2
If 
\-S is specified, it
specifies the name of the generated assembly listing file. 
.IP \(bu 2
If 
\-preprocess\-only or 
\-P is specified,
it specifies the name of the generated preprocessor file. 
.PP
Otherwise, it specifies the name of the executable file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None 
.NL
.PP
Windows: 
/exe
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-O[n]
.RS
.TP
Specifies the code optimization for
applications.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the optimization level. Possible values are 1,
2, or 3. On Linux* and OS X* systems, you can also specify 0.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
O2
.NL
Optimizes for code speed. This default may change
depending on which other compiler options are specified. For details, see
below.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the code optimization for
applications.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
O (Linux* and OS X*)
.NL
This is the same as specifying 
O2.
.NL
.TP 18
O0 (Linux and OS X)
.NL
Disables all optimizations. 
.TP 18
This option may set other options. This is
determined by the compiler, depending on which operating system and
architecture you are using. The options that are set may change from release to
release.
.TP 18
This option
causes certain 
warn options to
be ignored. This is the default if you specify option 
\-debug (with no
keyword).
.NL
.TP 18
O1
.NL
Enables optimizations for speed and disables
some optimizations that increase code size and affect speed. To limit code size, this option:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Enables global optimization; this includes
data\-flow analysis, code motion, strength reduction and test replacement,
split\-lifetime analysis, and instruction scheduling.
.RE
.TP 18
This option may set other options. This is
determined by the compiler, depending on which operating system and
architecture you are using. The options that are set may change from release to
release.
.TP 18
The 
O1 option may improve performance for applications
with very large code size, many branches, and execution time not dominated by
code within loops.
.NL
.TP 18
O2
.NL
Enables optimizations for speed. This is the
generally recommended optimization level.  Vectorization is enabled at 
O2 and higher levels.
.TP 18
On systems using IA\-32 architecture: Some
basic loop optimizations such as Distribution, Predicate Opt, Interchange,
multi\-versioning, and scalar replacements are performed.
.TP 18
This option also enables:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Inlining of intrinsics
.IP \(bu 2
Intra\-file interprocedural optimization,
which includes:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
inlining
.IP \(bu 2
constant propagation
.IP \(bu 2
forward substitution
.IP \(bu 2
routine attribute propagation
.IP \(bu 2
variable address\-taken analysis
.IP \(bu 2
dead static function elimination
.IP \(bu 2
removal of unreferenced variables
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
The following capabilities for performance
gain:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
constant propagation
.IP \(bu 2
copy propagation
.IP \(bu 2
dead\-code elimination
.IP \(bu 2
global register allocation
.IP \(bu 2
global instruction scheduling and
control speculation
.IP \(bu 2
loop unrolling
.IP \(bu 2
optimized code selection
.IP \(bu 2
partial redundancy elimination
.IP \(bu 2
strength reduction/induction variable
simplification
.IP \(bu 2
variable renaming
.IP \(bu 2
exception handling optimizations
.IP \(bu 2
tail recursions
.IP \(bu 2
peephole optimizations
.IP \(bu 2
structure assignment lowering and
optimizations
.IP \(bu 2
dead store elimination
.RE
.RE
.TP 18
This option may set other options, especially
options that optimize for code speed. This is determined by the compiler,
depending on which operating system and architecture you are using. The options
that are set may change from release to release.
.TP 18
On Windows*
systems, this option is the same as the 
Ox option.
.TP 18
On Linux* and OS
X* systems, if 
\-g is
specified, 
O2 is turned
off and 
O0 is the
default unless 
O2 (or 
O1 or 
O3) is
explicitly specified in the command line together with 
\-g.
.TP 18
On Linux systems, the 
\-debug inline\-debug\-info option will be enabled by
default if you compile with optimizations (option 
\-O2 or higher) and debugging is enabled (option 
\-g).
.TP 18
Many routines in the shared libraries are more
highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors.
.NL
.TP 18
O3
.NL
Performs 
O2
optimizations and enables more aggressive loop transformations such as Fusion,
Block\-Unroll\-and\-Jam, and collapsing IF statements.
.TP 18
This option may set other options. This is
determined by the compiler, depending on which operating system and
architecture you are using. The options that are set may change from release to
release.
.TP 18
When 
O3 is used with
options 
\-ax or 
\-x (Linux) or
with options 
/Qax or 
/Qx (Windows),
the compiler performs more aggressive data dependency analysis than for 
O2, which may
result in longer compilation times.
.TP 18
The 
O3
optimizations may not cause higher performance unless loop and memory access
transformations take place. The optimizations may slow down code in some cases
compared to 
O2
optimizations.
.TP 18
The 
O3 option is
recommended for applications that have loops that heavily use floating\-point
calculations and process large data sets. 
.TP 18
Many routines in the shared libraries are more
highly optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors.
.NL
.PP
The last 
O option specified on the
command line takes precedence over any others.
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Ofast
.RS
.TP
Sets certain aggressive options to improve the speed of your application.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The aggressive optimizations that improve speed are not enabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option improves the speed  of your
application.
.NL
.PP
It sets compiler options \-O3, \-no\-prec\-div, and \-fp\-model fast=2. 
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, this option is
provided for compatibility with gcc.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Os
.RS
.TP
Enables optimizations that do not increase code size; it produces smaller code size than O2. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Optimizations are made for code speed. However, if O1 is specified, Os is the default.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables optimizations that do not increase code size; it produces smaller code size than O2. It disables some optimizations that increase code size for a small speed benefit.
.NL
.PP
This option tells the compiler to favor transformations that reduce code size over transformations that produce maximum performance.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-p
.RS
.TP
Compiles and links for function profiling
with gprof(1). 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Files are compiled and linked without profiling. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option compiles and links for function profiling
with gprof(1). 
.NL
.PP
When you specify this
option, inlining is disabled. However, you can override this by specifying
directive FORCEINLINE, or a compiler option such as 
[Q]inline\-forceinline. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-pg,\-qp (this is a deprecated
option) 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-pad
.TP
.B
\-nopad
.RS
.TP
Enables the changing of the variable and array memory layout.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-nopad
.NL
Variable and array memory layout is performed by default methods.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the changing of the variable and array memory layout.
.NL
.PP
This option is effectively not different from the align option when applied to structures and derived types. However, the scope of pad is greater because it applies also to common blocks, derived types, sequence types, and structures.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-pad\-source
.TP
.B
\-nopad\-source
.RS
.TP
Specifies padding for fixed\-form source records.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-nopad\-source
.NL
Fixed\-form source records are not padded.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies padding for fixed\-form source records. It tells the compiler that fixed\-form source lines shorter than the statement field width are to be padded with spaces to the end of the statement field. This affects the interpretation of character and Hollerith literals that are continued across source records.
.NL
.PP
The default value setting causes a warning message to be displayed if a character or Hollerith literal that ends before the statement field ends is continued onto the next source record. To suppress this warning message, specify  setting nousage for option warn.
.NL
.PP
Specifying [Q]pad\-source can prevent warning messages associated with  setting usage for option warn. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-parallel
.RS
.TP
Tells the auto\-parallelizer to generate
multithreaded code for loops that can be safely executed in parallel.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Multithreaded code is not generated for loops that
can be safely executed in parallel.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the auto\-parallelizer to generate
multithreaded code for loops that can be safely executed in parallel. 
.NL
.PP
To use this option, you must also specify option 
O2 or 
O3.
.NL
.PP
This option sets option 
[q or Q]opt\-matmul if option 
O3 is also specified.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On OS X* systems, when you enable automatic
parallelization, you must also set the DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable
within Xcode* or an error will be displayed.
.PP
.B NOTE:
Using this option enables parallelization for both
Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel microprocessors. The resulting executable
may get additional performance gain on Intel microprocessors than on non\-Intel
microprocessors. The parallelization can also be affected by certain options,
such as 
/arch or 
/Qx (Windows*) or 
\-m or 
\-x (Linux* and OS X).
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-parallel\-source\-info[=n]
.TP
.B
\-no\-parallel\-source\-info
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables source location
emission when OpenMP* or auto\-parallelism code is generated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the level of source location emission. Possible
values are:
.RS
.TP 15
0
Disables the emission of source location
information when OpenMP* code or auto\-parallelism code is generated. This is
the same as specifying \-no\-parallel\-source\-info (Linux* and OS
X*) or /Qparallel\-source\-info\- (Windows*).
.TP 15
1
Tells the compiler to emit routine name and
line information. This is the same as specifying 
[Q]parallel\-source\-info with no 
\fIn\fR.
.TP 15
2
Tells the compiler to emit path, file,
routine name, and line information.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-parallel\-source\-info=1 
.NL
When OpenMP* code or auto\-parallelism code is
generated, the routine name and line information is emitted.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables source location emission when OpenMP code or
auto\-parallelism code is generated. It also lets you set the level of emission.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-par\-affinity=[modifier,...]type[,permute][,offset] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies thread affinity.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fImodifier\fR
.NL
Is one of the following values:
granularity={fine|thread|core}, [no]respect, [no]verbose, [no]warnings, proclist=proc_list.
The default is granularity=core, respect, and noverbose. 
.TP 18
\fItype\fR
.NL
Indicates the thread affinity. This argument is required and must be one of the following values: 
compact, disabled, explicit, none, scatter, logical, physical.  The default is none.
Values logical and physical are deprecated. Use compact and scatter, respectively, with no \fIpermute\fR value.
.TP 18
\fIpermute\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer. You cannot use this argument with \fItype\fR setting explicit, none, or disabled. The default is 0.
.TP 18
\fIoffset\fR
.NL
Is a positive integer. You cannot use this argument with \fItype\fR setting explicit, none, or disabled. The default is 0.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The thread affinity is determined by the run\-time environment.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies thread affinity, which binds threads to physical processing units. It has the same effect as environment variable KMP_AFFINITY.
.NL
.PP
This option overrides the environment variable when both are specified. 
.NL
.PP
This option only has an effect if the following is true:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
You have specified option [Q]parallel or option [q or Q]openmp (or both).
.IP \(bu 2
You are compiling the main program.
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option may behave differently on Intel(R) microprocessors than on non\-Intel microprocessors.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-par\-num\-threads=n
.RS
.TP
Specifies the number of threads to use in a parallel region.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the number of threads to use. It must be a positive integer.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The number of threads to use is determined by the run\-time environment.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the number of threads to
use in a parallel region. It has the same effect as environment
variable OMP_NUM_THREADS.
.NL
.PP
This option overrides the environment variable
when both are specified.
.NL
.PP
This option only has an effect if the following
is true:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
You have specified option [Q]parallel or option [q or Q]openmp (or both).
.IP \(bu 2
You are compiling the
main program.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-par\-runtime\-control[n]
.TP
.B
\-no\-par\-runtime\-control
.RS
.TP
Generates code to perform run\-time checks
for loops that have symbolic loop bounds. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a value denoting what kind of runtime checking
to perform. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Performs no runtime check based on
auto\-parallelization. This is the same as specifying 
\-no\-par\-runtime\-control (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qpar\-runtime\-control\- (Windows*). 
.TP 15
1
Generates runtime check code under
conservative mode. This is the default if you do not specify 
\fIn\fR. 
.TP 15
2
Generates runtime check code under heuristic
mode. 
.TP 15
3
Generates runtime check code under
aggressive mode. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-par\-runtime\-control 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when checking
loops. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option generates code to perform run\-time checks for
loops that have symbolic loop bounds. 
.NL
.PP
If the granularity of a loop is greater than the
parallelization threshold, the loop will be executed in parallel. 
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify this option, the compiler may not
parallelize loops with symbolic loop bounds if the compile\-time granularity
estimation of a loop can not ensure it is beneficial to parallelize the loop. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option may behave differently on Intel(R)
microprocessors than on non\-Intel microprocessors. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-par\-schedule\-keyword[=n]
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify a scheduling algorithm for loop iterations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies the scheduling algorithm or tuning method. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
auto
Lets the compiler or run\-time system determine the scheduling algorithm.
.TP 15
static
Divides iterations into contiguous pieces.
.TP 15
static\-balanced
Divides iterations into even\-sized chunks.
.TP 15
static\-steal
Divides iterations into even\-sized chunks, but allows threads to steal parts of chunks
from neighboring threads. 
.TP 15
dynamic
Gets a set of iterations dynamically.
.TP 15
guided
Specifies a minimum number of iterations.
.TP 15
guided\-analytical
Divides iterations by using exponential distribution or dynamic distribution. 
.TP 15
runtime
Defers the scheduling decision until run time.
.RE
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the size of the chunk or the number of iterations for each chunk. This setting
can only be specified for static, dynamic, and guided. For more information, see
the descriptions of each keyword below. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
static\-balanced
.NL
Iterations are divided into even\-sized chunks and the chunks are assigned to the
threads in the team in a round\-robin fashion in the order of the thread number.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify a scheduling algorithm for loop iterations.
It specifies how iterations are to be divided among the threads of the team. 
.NL
.PP
This option is only useful when specified with option [Q]parallel.
.NL
.PP
This option affects performance tuning and can provide better performance during
auto\-parallelization. It does nothing if it is used with option [q or Q]openmp.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-auto
.NL
Lets the compiler or run\-time system determine the scheduling algorithm. Any possible
mapping may occur for iterations to threads in the team.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-static
.NL
Divides iterations into contiguous pieces (chunks) of size \fIn\fR. The chunks are assigned
to threads in the team in a round\-robin fashion in the order of the thread number.
Note that the last chunk to be assigned may have a smaller number of iterations.
.TP 18
If no \fIn\fR is specified, the iteration space is divided into chunks that are approximately
equal in size, and each thread is assigned at most one chunk.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-static\-balanced
.NL
Divides iterations into even\-sized chunks. The chunks are assigned to the threads
in the team in a round\-robin fashion in the order of the thread number. 
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-static\-steal
.NL
Divides iterations into even\-sized chunks, but when a thread completes its chunk,
it can steal parts of chunks assigned to neighboring threads. 
.TP 18
Each thread keeps track
of L and U, which represent the lower and upper bounds of its chunks respectively.
Iterations are executed starting from the lower bound, and simultaneously, L is updated
to represent the new lower bound.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-dynamic
.NL
Can be used to get a set of iterations dynamically. Assigns iterations to threads
in chunks as the threads request them. The thread executes the chunk of iterations,
then requests another chunk, until no chunks remain to be assigned.
.TP 18
As each thread finishes a piece of the iteration space, it dynamically gets the next
set of iterations. Each chunk contains \fIn\fR iterations, except for the last chunk to
be assigned, which may have fewer iterations. If no \fIn\fR is specified, the default is
1.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-guided
.NL
Can be used to specify a minimum number of iterations. Assigns iterations to threads
in chunks as the threads request them. The thread executes the chunk of iterations,
then requests another chunk, until no chunks remain to be assigned. 
.TP 18
For a chunk of size 1, the size of each chunk is proportional to the number of unassigned
iterations divided by the number of threads, decreasing to 1.
.TP 18
For an \fIn\fR with value
\fIk\fR (greater than 1), the size of each chunk is determined in the same way with the
restriction that the chunks do not contain fewer than \fIk\fR iterations (except for the
last chunk to be assigned, which may have fewer than \fIk\fR iterations). If no \fIn\fR is specified,
the default is 1.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-guided\-analytical
.NL
Divides iterations by using exponential distribution or dynamic distribution. The
method depends on run\-time implementation. Loop bounds are calculated with faster
synchronization and chunks are dynamically dispatched at run time by threads in the
team.
.NL
.TP 18
[Q]par\-schedule\-runtime
.NL
Defers the scheduling decision until run time. The scheduling algorithm and chunk
size are then taken from the setting of environment variable OMP_SCHEDULE.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option may behave differently on Intel(R) microprocessors than on non\-Intel microprocessors.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-par\-threshold[n]
.RS
.TP
Sets a threshold for the auto\-parallelization of loops. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an integer whose value is the threshold for the auto\-parallelization of loops. Possible values are 0 through 100.
.IP
If \fIn\fR is 0, loops get auto\-parallelized always, regardless of computation work volume.
.IP
If \fIn\fR is 100, loops get auto\-parallelized when performance gains are predicted based on the compiler analysis data. Loops get auto\-parallelized only if profitable parallel execution is almost certain.
.IP
The intermediate 1 to 99 values represent the percentage probability for profitable speed\-up. For example, \fIn\fR=50 directs the compiler to parallelize only if there is a 50% probability of the code speeding up if executed in parallel.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-par\-threshold100 
.NL
Loops get auto\-parallelized only if profitable parallel execution is almost certain. This is also the default if you do not specify \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option sets a threshold for the auto\-parallelization of loops based on the probability of profitable execution of the loop in parallel. To use this option, you must also specify option [Q]parallel.
.NL
.PP
This option is useful for loops whose computation work volume cannot be determined at compile\-time. The threshold is usually relevant when the loop trip count is unknown at compile\-time. 
.NL
.PP
The compiler applies a heuristic that tries to balance the overhead of creating multiple threads versus the amount of work available to be shared amongst the threads.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option may behave differently on Intel(R) microprocessors than on non\-Intel microprocessors.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-pcn
.RS
.TP
Enables control of floating\-point significand precision.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the floating\-point significand precision. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
32
Rounds the significand to 24 bits (single precision).
.TP 15
64
Rounds the significand to 53 bits (double precision).
.TP 15
80
Rounds the significand to 64 bits (extended precision).
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-pc80 
.NL
On Linux* and OS X* systems, the floating\-point significand is rounded to 64 bits. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables control of floating\-point significand precision.
.NL
.PP
Some floating\-point algorithms are sensitive to the accuracy of the significand, or fractional part of the floating\-point value. For example, iterative operations like division and finding the square root can run faster if you lower the precision with the this option.
.NL
.PP
Note that a change of the default precision control or rounding mode, for example, by using the [Q]pc32 option or by user intervention, may affect the results returned by some of the mathematical functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-pie
.TP
.B
\-no\-pie
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler
generates position\-independent code that will be linked into an executable.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
varies
.NL
On Linux* and on OS X* versions less than 10.7,
the default is \-no\-pie. On OS X* 10.7 or greater, the default is \-pie.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler generates
position\-independent code that will be linked into an executable. To enable
generation of position\-independent code that will be linked into an executable,
specify 
\-pie.
.NL
.PP
To disable generation of position\-independent code that
will be linked into an executable, specify 
\-no\-pie.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prec\-div
.TP
.B
\-no\-prec\-div
.RS
.TP
Improves precision of floating\-point
divides.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-prec\-div 
.NL
The compiler uses this method for floating\-point
divides.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option improves precision of floating\-point divides.
It has a slight impact on speed.
.NL
.PP
With some optimizations, such as 
\-msse2 (Linux*) or 
/arch:SSE2 (Windows*),
the compiler may change floating\-point division computations into
multiplication by the reciprocal of the denominator. For example, A/B is
computed as A * (1/B) to improve the speed of the computation.
.NL
.PP
However, sometimes the value produced by this
transformation is not as accurate as full IEEE division. When it is important
to have fully precise IEEE division, use this option to disable the
floating\-point division\-to\-multiplication optimization. The result is more
accurate, with some loss of performance.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
\-no\-prec\-div (Linux* and
OS X*) or 
/Qprec\-div\- (Windows*),
it enables optimizations that give slightly less precise results than full IEEE
division.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prec\-sqrt
.TP
.B
\-no\-prec\-sqrt
.RS
.TP
Improves precision of square root implementations.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prec\-sqrt 
.NL
The compiler uses a faster but less precise implementation of square root.
.IP
However, the default is \-prec\-sqrt if any of the following options are specified: \-O0,  \-fltconsistency, or \-mp1 on Linux* and OS X* systems. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option improves precision of square root implementations. It has a slight impact on speed. 
.NL
.PP
This option inhibits any optimizations that can adversely affect the precision of a square root computation. The result is fully precise square root implementations, with some loss of performance.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-preprocess\-only
.RS
.TP
Causes the Fortran preprocessor to send output to a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Preprocessed source files are output to the compiler.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the Fortran preprocessor to send output to a file.
.NL
.PP
The source file is preprocessed by the Fortran preprocessor, and the result for each source file is output to a corresponding .i or .i90 file.
.NL
.PP
Note that the source file is not compiled.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-P
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-print\-multi\-lib
.RS
.TP
Prints information about where system
libraries should be found.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No information is printed unless the option is
specified.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prints information about where system
libraries should be found, but no compilation occurs. On Linux* systems, it is
provided for compatibility with gcc.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-print\-sysroot (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Prints the target sysroot directory that
is used during compilation.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitectures:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Nothing is printed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prints the target sysroot directory that is used during
compilation.
.NL
.PP
This is the target sysroot directory that is specified in an environment
file or in option 
\-\-sysroot. This option is only effective if a target sysroot
has been specified.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-data\-order (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-data\-order (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables data ordering if
profiling information is enabled.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prof\-data\-order 
.NL
Data ordering is disabled.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables data ordering if
profiling information is enabled. It controls the use of profiling information
to order static program data items. 
.NL
.PP
For this option to be effective, you must do the
following:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
For instrumentation compilation, you must specify
option 
[Q]prof\-gen setting
globdata. 
.IP \(bu 2
For feedback compilation, you must specify the 
[Q]prof\-use option. You
must not use multi\-file optimization by specifying options such as 
[Q]ipo or 
[Q]ipo\-c. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-dir 
dir
.RS
.TP
Specifies a directory for profiling
information output files. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the name of the directory. You can specify a
relative pathname or an absolute pathname. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Profiling output files are placed in the directory
where the program is compiled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies a directory for profiling
information output files (*.dyn and *.dpi). The specified directory must
already exist. 
.NL
.PP
You should specify this option using the same directory
name for both instrumentation and feedback compilations. If you move the .dyn
files, you need to specify the new path. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
/Qprof\-dir is equivalent to option 
/Qcov\-dir. If you specify both options, the last option
specified on the command line takes precedence. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-file 
filename
.RS
.TP
Specifies an alternate file name for the
profiling summary files.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the profiling summary file.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The profiling summary files have the file name
pgopti.*
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies an alternate file name for the
profiling summary files. The 
\fIfilename\fR is used as
the base name for files created by different profiling passes.
.NL
.PP
If you add this option to profmerge, the .dpi file will
be named 
\fIfilename\fR.dpi instead
of pgopti.dpi.
.NL
.PP
If you specify this option with option 
[Q]prof\-use, the .dpi
file will be named 
\fIfilename\fR.dpi instead
of pgopti.dpi.
.NL
.PP
Option 
/Qprof\-file is equivalent to option 
/Qcov\-file. If you specify both options, the last option
specified on the command line takes precedence.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
When you use option 
[Q]prof\-file, you can only specify a file name. If you want
to specify a path (relative or absolute) for 
\fIfilename\fR, you must also use option 
[Q]prof\-dir. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-func\-groups (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-func\-groups (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables function grouping if
profiling information is enabled.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prof\-func\-groups
.NL
Function grouping is disabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables function grouping if
profiling information is enabled.
.NL
.PP
A "function grouping" is a profiling optimization in
which entire routines are placed either in the cold code section or the hot
code section.
.NL
.PP
If profiling information is enabled by option 
\-prof\-use, option 
\-prof\-func\-groups is set
and function grouping is enabled. However, if you explicitly enable 
\-prof\-func\-order,
function ordering is performed instead of function grouping.
.NL
.PP
If you want to disable function grouping when profiling
information is enabled, specify 
\-no\-prof\-func\-groups.
.NL
.PP
To set the hotness threshold for function grouping, use
option 
\-prof\-hotness\-threshold.
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-func\-order (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-func\-order (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables function ordering if
profiling information is enabled. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prof\-func\-order 
.NL
Function ordering is disabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables function ordering if
profiling information is enabled. 
.NL
.PP
For this option to be effective, you must do the
following: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
For instrumentation compilation, you must specify
option 
[Q]prof\-gen setting
srcpos. 
.IP \(bu 2
For feedback compilation, you must specify 
[Q]prof\-use. You must not
use multi\-file optimization by specifying options such as 
[Q]ipo or 
[Q]ipo\-c. 
.PP
If you enable profiling information by specifying option 
[Q]prof\-use, option 
[Q]prof\-func\-groups is
set and function grouping is enabled. However, if you explicitly enable the 
[Q]prof\-func\-order
option, function ordering is performed instead of function grouping. 
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, this option is only available for
Linux linker 2.15.94.0.1, or later. 
.NL
.PP
To set the hotness threshold for function grouping and
function ordering, use option 
[Q]prof\-hotness\-threshold. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-gen[=keyword[,
keyword],...]
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-gen
.RS
.TP
Produces an instrumented object file that
can be used in profile guided optimization. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies details for the instrumented file.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
default
Produces an instrumented object file. This
is the same as specifying the 
[Q]prof\-gen
option with no keyword. 
.TP 15
srcpos
Produces an instrumented object file that
includes extra source position information. 
.TP 15
globdata
Produces an instrumented object file that
includes information for global data layout. 
.TP 15
[no]threadsafe
Produces an instrumented object file that
includes the collection of PGO data on applications that use a high level of
parallelism. If 
[Q]prof\-gen is specified with no keyword, the
default is 
nothreadsafe. 
.IP
On
Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner),
the only valid mode is keyword 
threadsafe. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prof\-gen
.NL
Profile generation is disabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option produces an instrumented object file that
can be used in profile guided optimization. It gets the execution count of each
basic block. 
.NL
.PP
You can specify more than one setting for 
[Q]prof\-gen. For example, you can specify the following: 
.NL
.PP
prof\-gen=scrpos \-prof\-gen=threadsafe (Linux* and OS X*) 
\-prof\-gen=scrpos, threadsafe (this is equivalent to the above)
.PP
.PP
/Qprof\-gen:scrpos /Qprof\-gen:threadsafe (Windows*)
/Qprof\-gen:scrpos, threadsafe (this is equivalent to the above)
.PP
.PP
If you specify keyword 
srcpos or 
globdata, a static profile
information file (.spi) is created. These settings may increase the time needed
to do a parallel build using \-prof\-gen, because of contention writing the .spi
file. 
.NL
.PP
These options are used in phase 1 of the Profile Guided
Optimizer (PGO) to instruct the compiler to produce instrumented code in your
object files in preparation for instrumented execution. 
.NL
.PP
When the 
[Q]prof\-gen option is used to produce an instrumented binary
file for profile generation, some optimizations are disabled. Those
optimizations are not disabled for any subsequent profile\-guided compilation
with option 
[Q]prof\-use that makes use of the generated profiles. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-hotness\-threshold=n (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you set the hotness threshold for
function grouping and function ordering. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the hotness threshold. 
\fIn\fR is a
percentage having a value between 0 and 100 inclusive. If you specify 0, there
will be no hotness threshold setting in effect for function grouping and
function ordering. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler\[aq]s default hotness threshold setting of
10 percent is in effect for function grouping and function ordering. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you set the hotness threshold for
function grouping and function ordering.
.NL
.PP
The "hotness threshold" is the percentage of functions in
the application that should be placed in the application\[aq]s hot region. The hot
region is the most frequently executed part of the application. By grouping
these functions together into one hot region, they have a greater probability
of remaining resident in the instruction cache. This can enhance the
application\[aq]s performance.
.NL
.PP
For this option to take effect, you must specify option 
[Q]prof\-use and one of
the following:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux systems: 
\-prof\-func\-groups or 
\-prof\-func\-order
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows systems: 
/Qprof\-func\-order
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-src\-dir
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-src\-dir
.RS
.TP
Determines whether directory information
of the source file under compilation is considered when looking up profile data
records.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
prof\-src\-dir
.NL
Directory information is used when looking up
profile data records in the .dpi file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether directory information of
the source file under compilation is considered when looking up profile data
records in the .dpi file. To use this option, you must also specify the 
[Q]prof\-use option. 
.NL
.PP
If the option is enabled, directory information is
considered when looking up the profile data records within the .dpi file. You
can specify directory information by using one of the following options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux and OS X: 
\-prof\-src\-root or 
\-prof\-src\-root\-cwd
.IP \(bu 2
Windows: 
/Qprof\-src\-root or 
/Qprof\-src\-root\-cwd
.PP
If the option is disabled, directory information is
ignored and only the name of the file is used to find the profile data record.
.NL
.PP
Note that option 
[Q]prof\-src\-dir controls
how the names of the user\[aq]s source files get represented within the .dyn or
.dpi files. Option 
[Q]prof\-dir specifies the
location of the .dyn or the .dpi files.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-src\-root=dir
.RS
.TP
Lets you use relative directory paths
when looking up profile data and specifies a directory as the base. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the base for the relative paths. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The setting of relevant options determines the path
used when looking up profile data records. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you use relative directory paths when
looking up profile data in .dpi files. It lets you specify a directory as the
base. The paths are relative to a base directory specified during the 
[Q]prof\-gen compilation
phase. 
.NL
.PP
This option is available during the following phases of
compilation: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux* and OS X* systems: 
\-prof\-gen and 
\-prof\-use phases 
.IP \(bu 2
Windows* systems: 
/Qprof\-gen and 
/Qprof\-use phases 
.PP
When this option is specified during the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase, it
stores information into the .dyn or .dpi file. Then, when .dyn files are merged
together or the .dpi file is loaded, only the directory information below the
root directory is used for forming the lookup key. 
.NL
.PP
When this option is specified during the 
[Q]prof\-use phase, it
specifies a root directory that replaces the root directory specified at the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase for
forming the lookup keys. 
.NL
.PP
To be effective, this option or option 
[Q]prof\-src\-root\-cwd must
be specified during the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase. In
addition, if one of these options is not specified, absolute paths are used in
the .dpi file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-src\-root\-cwd
.RS
.TP
Lets you use relative directory paths
when looking up profile data and specifies the current working directory as the
base. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The setting of relevant options determines the path
used when looking up profile data records. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you use relative directory paths when
looking up profile data in .dpi files. It specifies the current working
directory as the base. To use this option, you must also specify option 
[Q]prof\-use. 
.NL
.PP
This option is available during the following phases of
compilation: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux* and OS X* systems: 
\-prof\-gen and 
\-prof\-use phases 
.IP \(bu 2
Windows* systems: 
/Qprof\-gen and 
/Qprof\-use phases 
.PP
When this option is specified during the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase, it
stores information into the .dyn or .dpi file. Then, when .dyn files are merged
together or the .dpi file is loaded, only the directory information below the
root directory is used for forming the lookup key. 
.NL
.PP
When this option is specified during the 
[Q]prof\-use phase, it
specifies a root directory that replaces the root directory specified at the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase for
forming the lookup keys. 
.NL
.PP
To be effective, this option or option 
[Q]prof\-src\-root must be
specified during the 
[Q]prof\-gen phase. In
addition, if one of these options is not specified, absolute paths are used in
the .dpi file. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-use[=keyword]
.TP
.B
\-no\-prof\-use
.RS
.TP
Enables the use of profiling information
during optimization. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies additional instructions. Possible values
are: 
.RS
.TP 15
weighted
Tells the profmerge utility to apply a
weighting to the .dyn file values when creating the .dpi file to normalize the
data counts when the training runs have differentexecution durations. This
argument only has an effect when the compiler invokes the profmerge utility to
create the .dpi file. This argument does not have an effect if the .dpi file
was previously created without weighting. 
.TP 15
[no]merge
Enables or disables automatic invocation of
the profmerge utility. The default is 
merge. Note that you
cannot specify both 
weighted and 
nomerge. If you try
to specify both values, a warning will be displayed and 
nomerge takes
precedence. 
.TP 15
default
Enables the use of profiling information
during optimization. The profmerge utility is invoked by default. This value is
the same as specifying 
[Q]prof\-use
with no argument. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-prof\-use
.NL
Profiling information is not used during
optimization. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the use of profiling information
(including function splitting and function grouping) during optimization. It
enables option /Qfnsplit (Windows*). 
.NL
.PP
This option instructs the compiler to produce a
profile\-optimized executable and it merges available profiling output files
into a pgopti.dpi file. 
.NL
.PP
Note that there is no way to turn off function grouping
if you enable it using this option. 
.NL
.PP
To set the hotness threshold for function grouping and
function ordering, use option 
[Q]prof\-hotness\-threshold. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-prof\-value\-profiling[=keyword]
.RS
.TP
Controls which values are value profiled.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Controls which type of value profiling is
performed. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Prevents all types of value profiling.
.TP 15
nodivide
Prevents value profiling of non\-compile time
constants used in division or remainder operations.
.TP 15
noindcall
Prevents value profiling of function
addresses at indirect call sites.
.TP 15
all
Enables all types of value profiling.
.RE
.PP
You can specify more than one keyword, but they must be
separated by commas.
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
all
.NL
All value profile types are enabled and value
profiling is performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls which features are value profiled.
.NL
.PP
If this option is specified with option 
[Q]prof\-gen, it turns off instrumentation of operations of the
specified type. This also prevents feedback of values for the operations.
.NL
.PP
If this option is specified with option 
[Q]prof\-use, it turns off feedback of values collected of the
specified type.
.NL
.PP
If you specify level 2 or higher for option[q or
Q]opt\-report, the value profiling specialization information will be
reported within the PGO optimization report.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-profile\-functions
.RS
.TP
Inserts instrumentation calls at a
function\[aq]s entry and exit points.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No instrumentation calls are inserted at a
function\[aq]s entry and exit points.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option inserts instrumentation calls at a function\[aq]s entry and exit
points within a single\-threaded application to collect the cycles spent within
the function to produce reports that can help in identifying code hotspots.
.NL
.PP
When the instrumented application is run, this option causes the generation
of a loop_prof_funcs_<name>.dump file, where <name> is a timestamp
for the run. 
.NL
.PP
The same data values are also dumped into the file
loop_prof_<name>.xml for use with the data viewer application, unless you
turn off the output format by setting the environment variable
INTEL_LOOP_PROF_XML_DUMP to 0. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-profile\-loops=keyword
.RS
.TP
Inserts instrumentation calls at a
function\[aq]s entry and exit points, and before and after instrumentable loops.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies which type of loops should have
instrumentation. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
inner
Inserts instrumentation before and after
inner loops.
.TP 15
outer
Inserts instrumentation before and after
outer loops.
.TP 15
all
Inserts instrumentation before and after all
loops.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No instrumentation calls are inserted at a
function\[aq]s entry and exit points, or before and after instrumentable loop.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option inserts instrumentation calls at a function\[aq]s entry and exit
points within a single\-threaded application. For unthreaded applications, it
also inserts instrumentation before and after instrumentable loops of the type
listed in 
\fIkeyword\fR.
.NL
.PP
When the instrumented application is run, this option causes the generation
of a loop_prof_funcs_<name>.dump file and a
loop_prof_funcs_<name>.dump file, where <name> is a timestamp for
the run. 
.NL
.PP
The same timestamp is used for the loop file and function file. This
identifies that the loop data and function data were from the same program run.
.NL
.PP
The same data values are also dumped into the file
loop_prof_<name>.xml for use with the data viewer application, unless you
turn off the output format by setting the environment variable
INTEL_LOOP_PROF_XML_DUMP to 0. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-profile\-loops\-report[=n]
.RS
.TP
Controls the level of detail for the data
collected when instrumentation occurs before and after certain loops.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a value denoting the level of detail to report.
Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
1
Reports the cycle counts on entry and exits
of loops. This is the default if 
\fIn\fR is not specified.
.TP 15
2
Reports the level 1 default details, but
also includes the loop min/max and average loop iteration counts. 
.IP
To collect the loop iteration counts,
additional instrumentation is inserted. This can increase overhead in the
instrumented application and slow performance.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
1
.NL
The report shows the cycle counts on entry and
exits of loops.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the level of detail for the data collected when
instrumentation occurs before and after certain loops. To use this option, you
must also specify option 
[Q]profile\-loops. 
.NL
.PP
The report appears in file
loop_prof_loops_<name>.dump, where <name> is a timestamp value for
the run. The columns listed in the report will be based on the level of detail
that was selected during instrumentation. 
.NL
.PP
It is recommended that the same report level be used for
all files that are instrumented for the application. If different files of the
application were instrumented with different levels, the report will contain
all the columns of the highest detail level, but with default values for
unavailable fields for files that were instrumented at lower levels. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-pthread
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to use pthreads library for multithreading support. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not use pthreads library for multithreading support.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
Tells the compiler to use pthreads library for multithreading support.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-reentrancy threaded
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Qinstalldir
.RS
.TP
Specifies the root directory where the
compiler installation was performed. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the root directory where the installation was
performed. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The default root directory for compiler
installation is searched for the compiler. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the root directory where the
compiler installation was performed. It is useful if you want to use a
different compiler or if you did not use the compilervars shell script to set
your environment variables. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Qlocation,string,dir
.RS
.TP
Specifies the directory for supporting
tools.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIstring\fR
.NL
Is the name of the tool.
.TP 18
\fIdir\fR
.NL
Is the directory (path) where the tool is located.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler looks for tools in a default area.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the directory for supporting tools.
.NL
.PP
\fIstring\fR can be any of the
following:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
f \- Indicates the Intel(R) Fortran compiler.
.IP \(bu 2
fpp (or cpp) \- Indicates the Intel(R) Fortran
preprocessor or a user\-specified (alternate) Fortran preprocessor.
.IP \(bu 2
asm \- Indicates the assembler.
.IP \(bu 2
link \- Indicates the linker.
.IP \(bu 2
prof \- Indicates the profiler.
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems, the following is also available:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
masm \- Indicates the Microsoft assembler.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems, the following are also
available: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
as \- Indicates the assembler.
.IP \(bu 2
gas \- Indicates the GNU assembler. This setting
is for Linux* only.
.IP \(bu 2
ld \- Indicates the loader.
.IP \(bu 2
gld \- Indicates the GNU loader. This setting is
for Linux* only.
.IP \(bu 2
lib \- Indicates an additional library.
.IP \(bu 2
crt \- Indicates the crt%.o files linked into
executables to contain the place to start execution.
.RE
.PP
On Windows and OS X* systems, you can also specify a tool
command name. 
.NL
.PP
The following shows an example on OS X* systems:
.NL
.PP
\-Qlocation,ld,/usr/bin               ! This tells the driver to use /usr/bin/ld for the loader
\-Qlocation,ld,/usr/bin/gld           ! This tells the driver to use /usr/bin/gld as the loader
.PP
.PP
The following shows an example on Windows* systems:
.NL
.PP
/Qlocation,link,c:\Program Files\tools\            ! This tells the driver to use c:\Program Files\tools\link.exe for the loader
/Qlocation,link,c:\Program Files\tools\my_link.exe ! This tells the driver to use c:\Program Files\tools\my_link.exe as the loader
.PP
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qoffload[=keyword] (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-qno\-offload (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify the mode for offloading
or tell the compiler to ignore language constructs for offloading. This option
only applies to Intel(R) MIC Architecture. 
Option \-q[no\-]offload is
the replacement option for \-[no\-]offload, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R)
64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC Architecture 
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the mode for offloading or it disables
offloading. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Tells the compiler to ignore language
constructs for offloading. Warnings are issued by the compiler. This is
equivalent to the negative form of the option. 
.TP 15
mandatory
Specifies that offloading is mandatory
(required). If the target is not available, one of the following occurs: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
If no 
STATUS clause is specified for the 
OFFLOAD directive, the program fails with an
error message. 
.IP \(bu 2
If the 
STATUS clause is specified, the program
continues execution on the CPU. 
.RE
.TP 15
optional
Specifies that offloading is optional
(requested). If the target is not available, the program is executed on the
CPU, not the target. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
mandatory
.NL
The compiler recognizes language constructs for
offloading if they are specified. If option 
\-qoffload 
(Linux*) or 
/Qoffload (Windows*) is specified with no 
\fIkeyword\fR, the default is 
mandatory. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify the mode for offloading or tell the compiler
to ignore language constructs for offloading. 
.NL
.PP
Option \-q[no\-]offload is the replacement option for
\-[no\-]offload, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.PP
If no 
\-qoffload (Linux*) or 
/Qoffload (Windows*) option appears on the command line, then 
OFFLOAD directives are processed and: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The 
MANDATORY or 
OPTIONAL clauses are obeyed if present 
.IP \(bu 2
If no 
MANDATORY or 
OPTIONAL clause is present, the offload is
mandatory 
.PP
If any of the following appears on the command line, then 
OFFLOAD directives are ignored: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux* systems: 
\-qoffload=none or 
\-qno\-offload
.IP \(bu 2
Windows* systems: 
/offload:none or 
/Qoffload\-
.PP
However, OpenMP* 
directives for
coprocessor control (for example, !$OMP TARGET) are recognized if the 
[q or Q]openmp option is specified, regardless of whether or
not 
OFFLOAD directives are recognized or ignored.
.NL
.PP
If 
\fIkeyword\fR mandatory or 
optional appears for 
[Q]offload, then 
OFFLOAD directives are processed and: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The 
MANDATORY or 
OPTIONAL clauses are obeyed, regardless of
the 
\-qoffload 
(Linux*) or 
/Qoffload (Windows*) 
\fIkeyword\fR
.IP \(bu 2
If no 
MANDATORY or 
OPTIONAL clause is present, then the 
\-qoffload 
(Linux*) or 
/Qoffload (Windows*) 
\fIkeyword\fR is obeyed 
.PP
If the 
STATUS clause is specified for an 
OFFLOAD directive, it affects run\-time
behavior. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qoffload\-arch=arch (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify the target architecture
to use when offloading code. This option only applies to Intel(R) MIC
Architecture. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIarch\fR
.NL
Specifies the target architecture. 
.IP
On Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, 
\fIarch\fR can be one of the following: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
mic, targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.IP \(bu 2
mic\-avx512, targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
varies
.NL
On Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, the default 
\fIarch\fR is assumed to be 
mic. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify the target architecture to
use when offloading code.
.NL
.PP
The following are various combinations
and settings of command line options for offloading: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Offload: Intel(R) 64 architecture host and 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
target code generation: 
.IP
ifort                          ! default for Linux
ifort  \-qoffload\-arch=mic      ! explicit architecture targeting for Linux
ifort                          ! default for Windows
ifort  /Qoffload\-arch=mic      ! explicit architecture targeting for Windows
.IP \(bu 2
Offload: Intel(R) 64 architecture host and 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)
target code generation: 
.IP
ifort  \-qoffload\-arch=mic\-avx512     ! Linux
ifort  /Qoffload\-arch=mic\-avx512     ! Windows
.IP \(bu 2
Offload : 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)
host and target code generation (for this host, target defaults to 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)):
.IP
ifort  \-xmic\-avx512      ! Linux
ifort  /Qxmic\-avx512     ! Windows
.IP \(bu 2
Native : Code Generation for 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner):
.IP
ifort  \-mmic             ! Linux
ifort  /Qmic             ! Windows
.IP \(bu 2
Native : Code Generation for 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing):
.IP
ifort  \-xmic\-avx512 qno\-offload     ! Linux
ifort  /Qxmic\-avx512 /Qno\-offload    ! Windows
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qoffload\-attribute\-target=target\-name (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Causes the compiler to flag 
procedures and data
objects in the source file with the offload attribute target(mic). This option only applies
to Intel(R) MIC Architecture. Option \-qoffload\-attribute\-target is the replacement
option for \-offload\-attribute\-target, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fItarget\-name\fR
.NL
Is a specific
target. The only supported value for this argument is 
mic. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not flag 
procedures and data
objects in the source file with the offload attribute 
target(mic). 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the compiler to flag 
procedures and data
objects in the source file with the offload attribute target(mic). 
.NL
.PP
This option is similar to using the required
individual directive ATTRIBUTES OFFLOAD:MIC to set the attribute 
target(mic) for all procedures and data objects in the
source file. 
.NL
.PP
Individual directive ATTRIBUTES OFFLOAD:MIC
embedded in the source takes precedence over this option. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qoffload\-option,target,tool,"option\-list" (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you explicitly specify options to be
used for the specified target and tool. This option only applies to Intel(R) MIC
Architecture. Option \-qoffload\-option is the replacement option for
\-offload\-option, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fItarget\fR
.NL
Is the target
architecture. The only supported value for this argument is 
mic. 
.TP 18
\fItool\fR
.NL
Is the tool that the 
\fIoption\-list\fR is associated with. It can be one of the
following values: 
ld, 
link, 
as, or 
compiler. 
.IP
ld is the linker tool on Linux*;
link is the linker tool on Windows*. 
.TP 18
\fIoption\-list\fR
.NL
Is one or more options that are specific to the
tool. The quotation mark delimiters are required. Each option in the 
\fIoption\-list\fR must be separated by a space. 
.IP
For tool 
compiler, use compiler\-specific options; for tool 
ld, use linker\-specific options; for tool 
as, use assembler\-specific options. The options for
the tools always use the Linux form even when compiling on Windows. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not pass additional options to
the separate tools on the target architecture. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you explicitly specify options to be used for the specified
target and tool. It can be specified multiple times on the command line. 
.NL
.PP
When building a heterogeneous application, the driver passes all compiler
options specified on the command\-line to the host compilation and only certain
options to the offload compilation. To see a list of options passed to the
offload compilation, specify option 
watch=mic\-cmd. 
.NL
.PP
If you want to pass additional options to the offload compilation, or you
would like to override the command line options passed to offload compilation,
you must use option 
[q or Q]offload\-option to specify the additional or overriding
options. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify the options 
I, 
L, 
D, or 
U with the option 
[q or Q]offload\-option, they override any other 
I, 
L, 
D, and 
U options that are automatically passed from host to offload
compilation. 
.PP
To achieve the overriding effect, the 
I, 
L, 
D, and 
U options specified using 
[q or Q]offload\-option are placed ahead of the 
I, 
L, 
D, and 
U options automatically copied over from the host
compilation. All other options specified using 
[q or Q]offload\-option are placed after the options copied
over from host to offload compilation. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp
.TP
.B
\-qno\-openmp
.RS
.TP
Enables the parallelizer to generate
multi\-threaded code based on OpenMP* directives. Option \-qopenmp is the
replacement option for \-openmp, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-openmp
.NL
No OpenMP* multi\-threaded code is generated by the
compiler. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the parallelizer to generate
multi\-threaded code based on OpenMP* directives. The code can be executed in
parallel on both uniprocessor and multiprocessor systems. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option,
multithreaded libraries are used, but option 
fpp is not automatically
invoked. 
.NL
.PP
This option sets option 
automatic. 
.NL
.PP
This option works with any optimization level. Specifying
no optimization (\-O0 on
Linux* or 
/Od on Windows*) helps to
debug OpenMP applications. 
.NL
.PP
To ensure that a
threadsafe and/or reentrant run\-time library is linked and correctly
initialized, option 
[q or Q]openmp should also be used for the link step and for
the compilation of the main routine. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On OS X* systems, when you enable OpenMP* API, you must
also set the DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable within Xcode* or an error
will be displayed. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
Options that use OpenMP* API are available for both
Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel microprocessors, but these options may
perform additional optimizations on Intel(R) microprocessors than they perform on
non\-Intel microprocessors. The list of major, user\-visible OpenMP constructs
and features that may perform differently on Intel(R) microprocessors versus
non\-Intel microprocessors include: locks (internal and user visible), the
SINGLE construct, barriers (explicit and implicit), parallel loop scheduling,
reductions, memory allocation, thread affinity, and binding. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-fopenmp
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-lib=type
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify an OpenMP* run\-time
library to use for linking. Option \-qopenmp\-lib is the replacement option for
\-openmp\-lib, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fItype\fR
.NL
Specifies the type of library to use; it implies
compatibility levels. Currently, the only possible value is:
.RS
.TP 15
compat
Tells the compiler to use the compatibility
OpenMP* run\-time library (libiomp). This setting provides compatibility with
object files created using Microsoft* and GNU* compilers.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopenmp\-lib=compat 
.NL
The compiler uses the compatibility OpenMP*
run\-time library (libiomp).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify an OpenMP* run\-time library
to use for linking.
.NL
.PP
The compatibility OpenMP run\-time libraries are
compatible with object files created using the Microsoft* OpenMP run\-time
library (vcomp) or the GNU OpenMP run\-time library (libgomp).
.NL
.PP
To use the compatibility OpenMP run\-time library, compile
and link your application using the compat setting for option 
[q or Q]openmp\-lib. To use this option, you must also specify
one of the following compiler options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux* systems: 
\-qopenmp or 
\-qopenmp\-stubs
.IP \(bu 2
Windows* systems: 
/Qopenmp or 
/Qopenmp\-stubs
.PP
On Windows* systems, the compatibility OpenMP* run\-time
library lets you combine OpenMP* object files compiled with the Microsoft*
C/C++ compiler with OpenMP* object files compiled with the Intel(R) C, Intel(R)
C++, or Intel(R) Fortran compilers. The linking phase results in a single,
coherent copy of the run\-time library.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, the compatibility Intel OpenMP*
run\-time library lets you combine OpenMP* object files compiled with the GNU*
gcc or gfortran compilers with similar OpenMP* object files compiled with the
Intel(R) C, Intel(R) C++, or Intel(R) Fortran compilers. The linking phase results in
a single, coherent copy of the run\-time library.
.NL
.PP
You cannot link object
files generated by the Intel(R) Fortran compiler to object files compiled by the
GNU Fortran compiler, regardless of the presence or absence of the 
[Q]openmp compiler
option. This is because the Fortran run\-time libraries are incompatible.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
The compatibility OpenMP run\-time library is not
compatible with object files created using versions of the Intel compilers
earlier than 10.0.
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Windows* systems, this option is processed by the
compiler, which adds directives to the compiled object file that are processed
by the linker. On Linux* and OS X* systems, this option is processed by the 
ifort command that
initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-link=library
.RS
.TP
Controls whether the compiler links to
static or dynamic OpenMP* run\-time libraries. Option \-qopenmp\-link is the
replacement option for \-openmp\-link, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIlibrary\fR
.NL
Specifies the OpenMP library to use. Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
static
Tells the compiler to link to static OpenMP
run\-time libraries. Note that static OpenMP libraries are deprecated. 
.TP 15
dynamic
Tells the compiler to link to dynamic OpenMP
run\-time libraries. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopenmp\-link=dynamic
.NL
The compiler links to dynamic OpenMP* run\-time
libraries. However, if Linux* option 
\-static is
specified, the compiler links to static OpenMP run\-time libraries. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls whether the compiler links to static
or dynamic OpenMP* run\-time libraries. 
.NL
.PP
To link to the static OpenMP run\-time library (RTL) and
create a purely static executable, you must specify 
\-qopenmp\-link=static.
However, we strongly recommend you use the default setting, 
\-qopenmp\-link=dynamic. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Compiler options 
\-static\-intel and 
\-shared\-intel (Linux*
and OS X*) have no effect on which OpenMP run\-time library is linked. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Linux* systems, 
\-qopenmp\-link=dynamic
cannot be used in conjunction with option 
\-static. If you try to
specify both options together, an error will be displayed. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Linux systems, the OpenMP runtime library depends on
using libpthread and libc (libgcc when compiled with gcc). Libpthread and libc
(libgcc) must both be static or both be dynamic. If both libpthread and libc
(libgcc) are static, then the static version of the OpenMP runtime should be
used. If both libpthread and libc (libgcc) are dynamic, then either the static
or dynamic version of the OpenMP runtime may be used. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-offload[=device] (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-qno\-openmp\-offload (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables OpenMP* offloading
compilation for the 
TARGET directives. This option only applies
to Intel(R) MIC Architecture. Option \-qopenmp\-offload is the replacement option for
\-openmp\-offload, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R)
MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
device
.NL
Specifies the default device for target pragmas. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
mic
Specifies the target device is Intel(R) MIC
Architecture; this is the default. This value is available for Windows* and
Linux* systems on Intel(R) 64 architecture 
.TP 15
host
Causes the target code to run on the host
system, while still doing the outlining for offload. This lets you test 
OMP TARGET directives
when no target device is available. This value is available for Windows* and
Linux* systems on IA\-32 and Intel(R) 64 architecture. 
.RE
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-openmp\-offload
.NL
OpenMP* offloading compilation is disabled.
However, if option 
[q or Q]openmp is specified, the default is ON and
OpenMP offloading compilation is enabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables OpenMP* offloading compilation for the 
TARGET directives. When enabling offloading,
it lets you specify what the default target device should be for the 
TARGET directives. The default is 
mic. 
.NL
.PP
You can also use this option if you want to enable or disable the
offloading feature with no impact on other OpenMP* features. In this case, no
OpenMP runtime library is needed to link and the compiler does not need to
generate OpenMP runtime initialization code. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify this option with the 
[q or Q]openmp option, it can impact other OpenMP* features. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-simd
.TP
.B
\-qno\-openmp\-simd
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables OpenMP* SIMD
compilation. Option \-qopenmp\-simd is the replacement option for \-openmp\-simd,
which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-openmp\-simd
.NL
OpenMP* SIMD compilation is disabled. However, if
option 
[q or Q]openmp is specified, the default is ON and
OpenMP SIMD compilation is enabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables OpenMP* SIMD compilation. 
.NL
.PP
You can use this option if you want to enable or disable the SIMD support
with no impact on other OpenMP features. In this case, no OpenMP runtime
library is needed to link and the compiler does not need to generate OpenMP
runtime initialization code. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify this option with the 
[q or Q]openmp option, it can impact other OpenMP features. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-stubs
.RS
.TP
Enables compilation of OpenMP* programs
in sequential mode. Option \-qopenmp\-stubs is the replacement option for
\-openmp\-stubs, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The library of OpenMP* function stubs is not
linked.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables compilation of OpenMP* programs in
sequential mode. The OpenMP directives are ignored and a stub OpenMP library is
linked. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopenmp\-threadprivate=type (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify an OpenMP* threadprivate
implementation. Option \-qopenmp\-threadprivate is the replacement option for
\-openmp\-threadprivate, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fItype\fR
.NL
Specifies the type of threadprivate implementation.
Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
legacy
Tells the compiler to use the legacy OpenMP*
threadprivate implementation used in the previous releases of the Intel(R)
compiler. This setting does not provide compatibility with the implementation
used by other compilers. 
.TP 15
compat
Tells the compiler to use the compatibility
OpenMP* threadprivate implementation 
based on
applying the thread\-local attribute to each threadprivate variable. This setting provides compatibility with the
implementation provided by the Microsoft* and GNU* compilers. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopenmp\-threadprivate=legacy 
.NL
The compiler uses the legacy OpenMP* threadprivate
implementation used in the previous releases of the Intel compiler. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify an OpenMP* threadprivate
implementation.
.NL
.PP
The threadprivate implementation of the legacy OpenMP
run\-time library may not be compatible with object files created using OpenMP
run\-time libraries supported in other compilers.
.NL
.PP
To use this option, you must also specify one of the
following compiler options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Linux* systems: 
\-qopenmp or 
\-qopenmp\-stubs
.IP \(bu 2
Windows* systems: 
/Qopenmp or 
/Qopenmp\-stubs
.PP
The value specified for this option is independent of the
value used for the 
[q or Q]openmp\-lib option.
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Windows* systems, if you specify option 
/Qopenmp\-threadprivate:compat, the compiler does not
generate threadsafe code for common blocks in an !$OMP THREADPRIVATE directive
unless at least one element in the common block is explicitly initialized. For
more information, see the article titled: /Qopenmp\-threadprivate:compat doesn\[aq]t
work with uninitialized threadprivate common blocks, which is located in
http://intel.ly/1aHhsjc
.PP
.B NOTE:
On OS X* systems, legacy is the only type of
threadprivate supported. Option 
\-qopenmp\-threadprivate
is not recognized by the compiler.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-args\-in\-regs[=keyword]
.RS
.TP
Determines whether calls to routines are optimized by passing arguments in registers instead of on the stack. Option \-qopt\-args\-in\-regs is the replacement option for \-opt\-args\-in\-regs, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on IA\-32 architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies whether the optimization should be performed 
and under what conditions.
Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
The optimization is not performed. No arguments
are passed in registers. They are put on the stack.
.TP 15
seen
Causes arguments
to be passed in registers when they are passed to routines whose definition can be seen in the same compilation unit.
.TP 15
all
Causes arguments
to be passed in registers, whether they are passed to routines whose definition can be seen in the same compilation unit, or not. This value is only available on Linux* systems.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-args\-in\-regs=seen
.NL
Arguments
are passed in registers when they are passed to routines whose
definition is seen in the same compilation unit.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether calls to
routines are optimized by passing arguments
in registers instead of on the stack. It also indicates the conditions when the optimization
will be performed.
.NL
.PP
This option can improve performance for
Application Binary Interfaces (ABIs) that
require arguments
to be passed in memory and compiled without
interprocedural optimization (IPO).
.NL
.PP
Note that on Linux* systems, if all is specified, a small
overhead may be paid when calling "unseen" routines that have not
been compiled with the same option. This is because the call will
need to go through a "thunk" to ensure that arguments
are placed back on the stack where the callee
expects them.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-assume\-safe\-padding (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-assume\-safe\-padding (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler assumes
that variables and dynamically allocated memory are padded past the end of the
object. Option \-qopt\-assume\-safe\-padding is the replacement option for
\-opt\-assume\-safe\-padding, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-assume\-safe\-padding 
.NL
The compiler will not assume that variables and
dynamically allocated memory are padded past the end of the object. It will
adhere to the sizes specified in your program. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler assumes that variables and
dynamically allocated memory are padded past the end of the object. 
.NL
.PP
When you specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-assume\-safe\-padding, the compiler assumes that
variables and dynamically allocated memory are padded. This means that code can
access up to 64 bytes beyond what is specified in your program. 
.NL
.PP
The compiler does not add any padding for static and
automatic objects when this option is used, but it assumes that code can access
up to 64 bytes beyond the end of the object, wherever the object appears in the
program. To satisfy this assumption, you must increase the size of static and
automatic objects in your program when you use this option. 
.NL
.PP
This option may improve performance of memory operations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-block\-factor=n
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify a loop blocking factor. Option \-qopt\-block\-factor is the replacement option for \-opt\-block\-factor, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the blocking factor. It must be an integer. The compiler may ignore the blocking factor if the value is 0 or 1. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics for loop blocking.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify a loop blocking factor.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-dynamic\-align
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-dynamic\-align
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables dynamic data alignment optimizations. Option \-qopt\-dynamic\-align is the replacement option for \-opt\-dynamic\-align, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-dynamic\-align 
.NL
The compiler may generate code dynamically dependent on alignment. It may do optimizations based on data location for the best performance. The result of execution on some algorithms may depend on data layout.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables dynamic data alignment optimizations. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify \-qno\-opt\-dynamic\-align or /Qopt\-dynamic\-align\-, the compiler generates no code dynamically dependent on alignment. It will not do any optimizations based on data location and results will depend on the data values themselves.
.NL
.PP
When you specify [q or Q]qopt\-dynamic\-align, the compiler may implement conditional optimizations based on dynamic alignment of the input data.  These dynamic alignment optimizations may result in different bitwise results for aligned and unaligned data with the same values. 
.NL
.PP
Dynamic alignment optimizations can improve the performance of vectorized code, especially for long trip count loops. Disabling such optimizations can decrease performance, but it may improve bitwise reproducibility of results, factoring out data location from possible sources of discrepancy.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll=n (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify an alternative loop
unroll sequence for gather and scatter loops. Option
\-qopt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll is the replacement option for
\-opt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the unroll factor for the gather and scatter loops. It must be an
integer between 0 and 8. If you specify value 0 for 
\fIn\fR, it is the same as specifying the negative form of
the option. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll or 
/Qopt\-gather\-scatter\-unroll
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when
unrolling gather and scatter loops. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify an alternative loop unroll sequence for gather
and scatter loops. 
.NL
.PP
This option may improve performance of gather/scatter operations. 
.NL
.PP
The value of 
\fIn\fR that provides the best performance is data\-dependent. 
.NL
.PP
In cases where the gather/scatter operation accesses data in a small number
of cache\-lines (such as 1 or 2), the default sequence (using a small value for 
\fIn\fR) works best. In cases where each individual data item
falls in a different cache\-line, it may be better to use a large value for 
\fIn\fR. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-jump\-tables=keyword
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-jump\-tables
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables generation of jump
tables for switch statements. Option \-qopt\-jump\-tables is the replacement
option for \-opt\-jump\-tables, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Is the instruction for generating jump tables.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
never
Tells the compiler to never generate jump
tables. All switch statements are implemented as chains of if\-then\-elses. This
is the same as specifying 
\-qno\-opt\-jump\-tables (Linux* and
OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-jump\-tables\- (Windows*).
.TP 15
default
The compiler uses default heuristics to
determine when to generate jump tables. 
.TP 15
large
Tells the compiler to generate jump tables up
to a certain pre\-defined size (64K entries). 
.TP 15
n
Must be an integer. Tells the compiler to
generate jump tables up to 
\fIn\fR
entries in size. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-jump\-tables=default 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics to determine
when to generate jump tables for switch statements.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables generation of jump tables
for switch statements. When the option is enabled, it may improve performance
for programs with large switch statements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-malloc\-options=n
.RS
.TP
Lets you specify an alternate algorithm for malloc(). Option \-qopt\-malloc\-options is the replacement option for \-opt\-malloc\-options, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Specifies the algorithm to use for malloc(). Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
0
Tells the compiler to use the default algorithm for malloc(). This is the default.
.TP 15
1
Causes the following adjustments to the malloc() algorithm: M_MMAP_MAX=2 and M_TRIM_THRESHOLD=0x10000000.
.TP 15
2
Causes the following adjustments to the malloc() algorithm: M_MMAP_MAX=2 and M_TRIM_THRESHOLD=0x40000000.
.TP 15
3
Causes the following adjustments to the malloc() algorithm: M_MMAP_MAX=0 and M_TRIM_THRESHOLD=\-1.
.TP 15
4
Causes the following adjustments to the malloc() algorithm: M_MMAP_MAX=0, M_TRIM_THRESHOLD=\-1, M_TOP_PAD=4096.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-malloc\-options=0
.NL
The compiler uses the default algorithm when malloc() is called. No call is made to mallopt().
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you specify an alternate algorithm for malloc().
.NL
.PP
If you specify a non\-zero value for \fIn\fR, it causes alternate configuration parameters to be set for how malloc() allocates and frees memory. It tells the compiler to insert calls to mallopt() to adjust these parameters to malloc() for dynamic memory allocation. This may improve speed.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-matmul (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-matmul (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables a compiler\-generated
Matrix Multiply (matmul) library call. Option \-qopt\-matmul is the replacement
option for \-opt\-matmul, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-matmul 
.NL
The matmul library call optimization does not
occur unless this option is enabled or certain other compiler options are
specified (see below). 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables a compiler\-generated
Matrix Multiply (MATMUL) library call. 
.NL
.PP
The 
[q or Q]opt\-matmul option tells the compiler to identify
matrix multiplication loop nests (if any) and replace them with a matmul
library call for improved performance. The resulting executable may get
additional performance gain on Intel(R) microprocessors than on non\-Intel
microprocessors. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option is dependent upon the OpenMP* library. If
your product does not support OpenMP, this option will have no effect. 
.PP
This option is enabled by default if options 
O3 and 
[Q]parallel are specified. To disable this optimization,
specify 
\-qno\-opt\-matmul or 
/Qopt\-matmul\-. 
.NL
.PP
This option has no effect unless option 
O2 or higher is set. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Many routines in the MATMUL library are more highly
optimized for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel microprocessors. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-mem\-layout\-trans[=n]
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-mem\-layout\-trans
.RS
.TP
Controls the level of memory layout
transformations performed by the compiler. Option \-qopt\-mem\-layout\-trans is the
replacement option for \-opt\-mem\-layout\-trans, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the level of memory layout transformations.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Disables memory layout transformations. This
is the same as specifying 
\-qno\-opt\-mem\-layout\-trans (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-mem\-layout\-trans\- (Windows*). 
.TP 15
1
Enables basic memory layout transformations.
.TP 15
2
Enables more memory layout transformations.
This is the same as specifying 
[q or Q]opt\-mem\-layout\-trans with no argument. 
.TP 15
3
Enables aggressive memory layout
transformations. You should only use this setting if your system has more than
4GB of physical memory per core. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-mem\-layout\-trans=2
.NL
The compiler performs moderate memory layout
transformations. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the level of memory layout
transformations performed by the compiler. This option can improve cache reuse
and cache locality. 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-multi\-version\-aggressive
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-multi\-version\-aggressive
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to use aggressive
multi\-versioning to check for pointer aliasing and scalar replacement. Option
\-qopt\-multi\-version\-aggressive is the replacement option for
\-opt\-multi\-version\-aggressive, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-multi\-version\-aggressive 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when checking
for pointer aliasing and scalar replacement.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to use aggressive
multi\-versioning to check for pointer aliasing and scalar replacement. This
option may improve performance.
.NL
.PP
The performance can be affected by certain options, such
as 
/arch or 
/Qx (Windows*) or 
\-m or 
\-x (Linux* and OS X*).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-prefetch[=n]
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-prefetch
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables prefetch insertion
optimization. Option \-qopt\-prefetch is the replacement option for
\-opt\-prefetch, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the level of software prefetching optimization
desired. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Disables software prefetching. This is the
same as specifying 
\-qno\-opt\-prefetch (Linux* and OS
X*) or 
/Qopt\-prefetch\- (Windows*). 
.TP 15
1 to 
5
Enables different levels of software
prefetching. If you do not specify a value for 
\fIn\fR, the
default is 
2. Use lower values
to reduce the amount of prefetching. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-prefetch 
.NL
Prefetch insertion optimization is disabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables prefetch insertion
optimization. The goal of prefetching is to reduce cache misses by providing
hints to the processor about when data should be loaded into the cache. 
.NL
.PP
On Intel(R) 64
architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner),
option 
\-qopt\-prefetch=3 (Linux* and OS X*) and 
/Qopt\-prefetch:3 (Windows*) are enabled by default if option 
O2 or higher is set. To
disable prefetching at these optimization levels, specify option 
\-qno\-opt\-prefetch or 
/Qopt\-prefetch\-. 
.NL
.PP
This option enables prefetching when higher optimization
levels are specified. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-prefetch\-distance=n1[, 
n2] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies the prefetch distance to be
used for compiler\-generated prefetches inside loops. Option
\-qopt\-prefetch\-distance is the replacement option for \-opt\-prefetch\-distance,
which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn1,
n2\fR
.NL
Is the prefetch distance in terms of the number of
(possibly\-vectorized) iterations. Possible values are non\-negative numbers
>=0. 
.IP
\fIn2\fR is
optional. 
.IP
\fIn1\fR = 0 turns off all compiler issued prefetches
from memory to L2. 
\fIn2 
\fR= 0 turns off all compiler issued prefetches from L2 to L1.
If 
\fIn2\fR is
specified and 
\fIn1\fR > 0, 
\fIn1\fR should be >= 
\fIn2\fR. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics to determine
the prefetch distance. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the prefetch distance to be used for
compiler\-generated prefetches inside loops. The unit (\fIn1\fR and
optionally 
\fIn2\fR) is the number of iterations. If the loop is vectorized
by the compiler, the unit is the number of vectorized iterations. 
.NL
.PP
The value of 
\fIn1\fR will be used as the distance for prefetches from memory
to L2 (for example, the vprefetch1 instruction). If 
\fIn2\fR is specified, it will be used as the distance for
prefetches from L2 to L1 (for example, the vprefetch0 instruction). 
.NL
.PP
This option is ignored if option 
\-qopt\-prefetch=0 (Linux*) or 
/Qopt\-prefetch:0 (Windows*) is specified. On Intel(R) MIC
Architecture, 
\-qopt\-prefetch=3 and 
/Qopt\-prefetch:3 is the default at option levels 
O2 and above. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-prefetch\-issue\-excl\-hint (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Supports the prefetchW instruction in
Intel(R) microarchitecture code name Broadwell and later. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler does not support the PREFETCHW
instruction for this microarchitecture. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option supports the PREFETCHW instruction in Intel(R) microarchitecture
code name Broadwell and later. 
.NL
.PP
When you specify this option, you must also specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-prefetch. 
.NL
.PP
The prefetch instruction is merely a hint and does not affect program
behavior. If executed, this instruction moves data closer to the processor and
invalidates any other cached copy in anticipation of the line being written to
in the future. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-ra\-region\-strategy[=keyword]
.RS
.TP
Selects the method that the register allocator uses to partition each routine into regions. Option \-qopt\-ra\-region\-strategy is the replacement option for \-opt\-ra\-region\-strategy, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Is the method used for partitioning. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
routine
Creates a single region for each routine.
.TP 15
block
Partitions each routine into one region per basic block.
.TP 15
trace
Partitions each routine into one region per trace.
.TP 15
loop
Partitions each routine into one region per loop.
.TP 15
default
The compiler determines which method is used for partitioning.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-ra\-region\-strategy=default 
.NL
The compiler determines which method is used for partitioning. This is also the default if keyword is not specified.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option selects the method that the register allocator uses to partition each routine into regions.
.NL
.PP
When setting default is in effect, the compiler attempts to optimize the tradeoff between compile\-time performance and generated code performance.
.NL
.PP
This option is only relevant when optimizations are enabled (option O1 or higher).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report[=n]
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate an
optimization report. Option \-qopt\-report is the replacement option for
\-opt\-report, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
(Optional) Indicates the level of detail in the
report. You can specify values 0 through 5. If you specify zero, no report is
generated. For levels 
\fIn\fR=1 through 
\fIn\fR=5, each level includes all the information of the
previous level, as well as potentially some additional information. Level 5
produces the greatest level of detail. If you do not specify 
\fIn\fR, the default is level 2, which produces a medium
level of detail. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate a collection
of optimization report files, one per object; this is the same output produced
by option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-per\-object. 
.NL
.PP
If you prefer another form of output, you can specify
option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-file. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify a level (\fIn\fR) higher than
5, a warning will be displayed and you will get a level 5 report. 
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*). 
.NL
.PP
For a description of the information that each 
\fIn\fR level provides, see the Example section in option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-phase. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-annotate[=keyword]
.RS
.TP
Enables the annotated source listing
feature and specifies its format.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the format for the annotated source
listing. You can specify one of the following:
.RS
.TP 15
text
Indicates that the listing should be in text
format. This is the default if you do not specify 
\fIkeyword\fR.
.TP 15
html
Indicates that the listing should be in html
format.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No annotated source listing is generated
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the annotated source listing feature and specifies its
format. The feature annotates source files with compiler optimization reports.
.NL
.PP
By default, one annotated source file is output per object. The annotated
file is written to the same directory where the object files are generated. If
the object file is a temporary file and an executable is generated, annotated
files are placed in the directory where the executable is placed. You cannot
generate annotated files to a directory of your choosing.
.NL
.PP
However, you can output annotated listings to stdout, stderr, or to a file
if you also specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-file.
.NL
.PP
By default, this option sets option 
[q or Q]opt\-report with default level 2.
.NL
.PP
The following shows the file extension and listing details for the two
possible 
\fIkeyword\fRs.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBFormat
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBListing Details
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
text
.NL
The annotated source listing has an .annot
extension. It includes line numbers and compiler diagnostics placed after
correspondent lines. IPO footnotes are inserted at the end of annotated file.
.NL
.TP 18
html
.NL
The annotated source listing has an .annot.html
extension. It includes line numbers and compiler diagnostics placed after
correspondent lines (as the text format does). It also provides hyperlinks in
compiler messages and quick navigation with the routine list. IPO footnotes are
displayed as tooltips.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-annotate\-position=keyword
.RS
.TP
Enables the annotated source listing
feature and specifies the site where optimization messages appear in the
annotated source in inlined cases of loop optimizations. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the site where optimization messages
appear in the annotated source. You can specify one of the following: 
.RS
.TP 15
caller
Indicates that the messages should appear in
the caller site. 
.TP 15
callee
Indicates that the messages should appear in
the callee site. 
.TP 15
both
Indicates that the messages should appear in
both the caller and the callee sites. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No annotated source listing is generated 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables the annotated source listing feature and specifies the
site where optimization messages appear in the annotated source in inlined
cases of loop optimizations. 
.NL
.PP
This option enables option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-annotate if it is not explicitly specified.
.NL
.PP
If annotated source listing is enabled
and this option is not passed to compiler, loop optimizations are placed in
caller position by default. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-embed
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-report\-embed
.RS
.TP
Determines whether special loop
information annotations will be embedded in the object file and/or the assembly
file when it is generated. Option \-qopt\-report\-embed is the replacement option
for \-opt\-report\-embed, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
When an assembly file is being generated, special
loop information annotations will not be embedded in the assembly file. 
.IP
However, if option 
\-g (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Zi (Windows*) is specified, special loop information
annotations will be embedded in the assembly file unless option 
\-qno\-opt\-report\-embed (Linux and OS X) or 
/Qopt\-report\-embed\- (Windows) is specified.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether special loop information annotations will be
embedded in the object file and/or the assembly file when it is generated.
Specify the positive form of the option to include the annotations in the
assembly file.
.NL
.PP
If an object file (or executable) is being generated, the annotations will
be embedded in the object file (or executable). 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-file=keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies that the output for the
optimization report goes to a file, stderr, or stdout. Option \-qopt\-report\-file
is the replacement option for \-opt\-report\-file, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the output for the report. You can
specify one of the following: 
.RS
.TP 15
filename
Specifies the name of the file where the
output should go. 
.TP 15
stderr
Indicates that the output should go to
stderr. 
.TP 15
stdout
Indicates that the output should go to
stdout. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that the output for the
optimization report goes to a file, stderr, or stdout. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report. 
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-filter=string
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to find the indicated
parts of your application, and generate optimization reports for those parts of
your application. Option \-qopt\-report\-filter is the replacement option for
\-opt\-report\-filter, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIstring\fR
.NL
Is the information to search for. The 
\fIstring\fR must appear within quotes. It can take one or
more of the following forms: 
\fIfilename\fR\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIroutine\fR\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIrange\fR [, 
\fIrange\fR]... 
\fIfilename\fR, 
\fIroutine\fR, 
\fIrange\fR [, 
\fIrange\fR]... 
.IP
If you specify more than one of the above forms in
a string, a semicolon must appear between each form. If you specify more than
one 
\fIrange\fR in a string, a comma must appear between each 
\fIrange\fR. Optional blanks can follow each parameter in
the forms above and they can also follow each form in a string.
.RS
.TP 15
\fIfilename\fR
Specifies the name of a file to be found. It can include a
path.
.IP
If you do not specify a path, the compiler looks for the
filename in the current working directory.
.TP 15
\fIroutine\fR
Specifies the name of a routine to be found. You can include an
identifying argument. 
.IP
The name, including any argument, must be
enclosed in single quotes.
.IP
The compiler tries to uniquely identify the routine that
corresponds to the specified routine name. 
.IP
It may select multiple routines to analyze,
especially if more than one routine has the specified routine name, so the
routine cannot be uniquely identified.
.TP 15
\fIrange\fR
Specifies a range of line numbers to be found in the file or
routine specified. The 
\fIrange\fR must be specified in integers in the
form:
.IP
\fIfirst_line_number\-last_line_number\fR
.IP
The hyphen between the line numbers is required.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to find the indicated parts of your
application, and generate optimization reports for those parts of your
application. Optimization reports will only be generated for the routines that
contain the specified 
\fIstring\fR.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* and OS X*, if you specify both 
\-qopt\-report\-routine=string1 and 
\-qopt\-report\-filter=string2, it is treated as 
\-qopt\-report\-filter=string1;string2. On Windows*, if you
specify both 
/Qopt\-report\-routine:string1 and 
/Qopt\-report\-filter:string2, it is treated
as/Qopt\-report\-filter:string1;string2.
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-format=keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies the format for an optimization
report. Option \-qopt\-report\-format is the replacement option for
\-opt\-report\-format, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the format for the report. You can specify one of the
following: 
.RS
.TP 15
text
Indicates that the report should be in text
format. 
.TP 15
vs
Indicates that the report should be in
Visual Studio* (IDE) format. The Visual Studio IDE uses the information to
visualize the optimization report in the context of your program source code. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the format for an optimization report. If you use this
option, you must specify either 
text or 
vs. 
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify this option and another option causes an optimization
report to be generated, the default format is 
text. 
.NL
.PP
If the 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-file option is also specified, it will
affect where the output goes: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
If 
filename is specified, output goes to the specified
file. 
.IP \(bu 2
If 
stdout is specified, output goes to stdout. 
.IP \(bu 2
If 
stderr is specified, output goes to stderr. 
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report. 
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-help
.RS
.TP
Displays the optimizer phases available for report generation and a short description of what is reported at each level. Option \-qopt\-report\-help is the replacement option for \-opt\-report\-help, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option displays the optimizer phases available for report generation using [q or Q]opt\-report\-phase, and a short description of what is reported at each level.  No compilation is performed.
.NL
.PP
To indicate where output should go, you can specify one of the following options:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
[q or Q]opt\-report\-file
.IP \(bu 2
[q or Q]opt\-report\-per\-object
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option [q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-names=keyword
.RS
.TP
Specifies whether mangled or unmangled
names should appear in the optimization report.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the form for the names. You can specify one of the
following: 
.RS
.TP 15
mangled
Indicates that the optimization report
should contain mangled names.
.TP 15
unmangled
Indicates that the optimization report
should contain unmangled names.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies whether mangled or unmangled names should appear in
the optimization report. If you use this option, you must specify either 
mangled or 
unmangled.
.NL
.PP
If this option is not specified, unmangled names are used by default.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
mangled, encoding (also known as decoration) is added to
names in the optimization report. This is appropriate when you want to match
annotations with the assembly listing.
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
unmangled, no encoding (or decoration) is added to names
in the optimization report. This is appropriate when you want to match
annotations with the source listing.
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-per\-object
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler that optimization
report information should be generated in a separate file for each object.
Option \-qopt\-report\-per\-object is the replacement option for
\-opt\-report\-per\-object, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler that optimization report information should
be generated in a separate file for each object. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify this option for a
single\-file compilation, a file with a .optrpt extension is produced for every
object file or assembly file that is generated by the compiler. For a multifile
Interprocedural Optimization (IPO) compilation, one file is produced for each
of the N true objects generated in the compilation. If only one true object
file is generated, the optimization report file generated is called
ipo_out.optrpt. If multiple true object files are generated (N>1), the names
used are ipo_out1.optprt, ipo_out2.optrpt, ipo_outN.optrpt. 
.NL
.PP
The .optrpt files are written to the target directory of the compilation
process. If an object or assembly file is explicitly generated, the
corresponding .optrpt file is written to the same directory where the object
file is generated. If the object file is just a temporary file and an
executable is generated, the corresponding .optrpt files are placed in the
directory in which the executable is placed. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report. 
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-phase[=list]
.RS
.TP
Specifies one or more optimizer phases
for which optimization reports are generated. Option \-qopt\-report\-phase is the
replacement option for \-opt\-report\-phase, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIlist\fR
.NL
(Optional) Specifies one or more phases to generate
reports for. If you specify more than one phase, they must be separated with
commas. The values you can specify are: 
.RS
.TP 15
cg
The phase for code generation 
.TP 15
ipo
The phase for Interprocedural Optimization 
.TP 15
loop
The phase for loop nest optimization 
.TP 15
offload
The phase for Intel(R) MIC Architecture. This phase has no effect if option 
\-no\-qoffload or option 
/Qoffload\- is specified. This phase only applies
to Intel(R) MIC Architecture. 
.TP 15
openmp
The phase for OpenMP 
.TP 15
par
The phase for auto\-parallelization 
.TP 15
pgo
The phase for Profile Guided Optimization 
.TP 15
tcollect
The phase for trace collection 
.TP 15
vec
The phase for vectorization 
.TP 15
all
All optimizer phases. This is the default if
you do not specify 
\fIlist\fR. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies one or more optimizer phases for
which optimization reports are generated. 
.NL
.PP
Note that phase
offload causes the compiler to print a report of the input
or output of variables that the host sends to the offload target and variables
that the host receives from the target. 
.NL
.PP
For certain phases, you also need to specify other
options: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
cg, you must also specify option 
O1, 
O2 (default), or 
O3.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
ipo, you must also specify option 
[Q]ipo.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
loop, you must also specify option 
O2 (default) or 
O3.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
openmp, you must also specify option 
[q or Q]openmp. 
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
par, you must also specify option 
[Q]parallel. 
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
pgo, you must also specify option 
[Q]prof\-use.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
tcollect, you must also specify option 
[Q]tcollect.
.IP \(bu 2
If you specify phase 
vec, you must also specify option 
O2 (default) or 
O3. If you are interested in explicit vectorization by OpenMP*
SIMD, you must also specify option 
[q or Q]openmp.
.PP
To find all phase possibilities, specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report\-help. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report. 
.NL
.PP
However, if you want to get more details for each phase,
specify option 
[q or Q]opt\-report=\fIn\fR along with this option
and indicate the level of detail you want by specifying an appropriate value
for 
\fIn\fR. (See also the Example section below.) 
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*). 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-report\-routine=substring
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate an
optimization report for each of the routines whose names contain the specified
substring. Option \-qopt\-report\-routine is the replacement option for
\-opt\-report\-routine, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIsubstring\fR
.NL
Is the text (string) to look for.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No optimization report is generated.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate an
optimization report for each of the routines whose names contain the specified
substring.
.NL
.PP
You can also specify a sequence of substrings separated
by commas. If you do this, the compiler will generate an optimization report
for each of the routines whose name contains one or more of these substrings. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option, you do not have to specify option
[q or Q]opt\-report.
.NL
.PP
When optimization reporting is enabled, the default is 
\-qopt\-report\-phase=all (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qopt\-report\-phase:all (Windows*).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-streaming\-cache\-evict[=n] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Specifies the cache eviction level to be
used by the compiler for streaming loads and stores. Option
\-qopt\-streaming\-cache\-evict is the replacement option for
\-opt\-streaming\-cache\-evict, which is deprecated. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is a value denoting the cache eviction (clevict)
level to use for streaming loads and stores. Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
0
Tells the compiler to use no cache eviction
level. 
.TP 15
1
Tells the compiler to use the L1 cache
eviction level. 
.TP 15
2
Tells the compiler to use the L2 cache
eviction level. 
.TP 15
3
Tells the compiler to use the L1 and L2
cache eviction level. This is the default of you do not specify 
\fIn\fR. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
2
.NL
The compiler uses the L2 cache eviction level. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the cache eviction (clevict) level to be used by the
compiler for streaming loads and stores. 
.NL
.PP
Depending on the level used, the compiler will generate clevict0 and/or
clevict1 instructions that evict the cache\-line (corresponding to the load or
the store) from the first\-level and second\-level caches. These cache eviction
instructions will be generated after performing the corresponding load/store
operation. 
.NL
.PP
For more information on how to mark loads/stores as streaming, see the
description of the 
VECTOR NONTEMPORAL directive. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-streaming\-stores=keyword
.RS
.TP
Enables generation of streaming stores for optimization. Option \-qopt\-streaming\-stores is the replacement option for \-opt\-streaming\-stores, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies whether streaming stores are generated. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
always
Enables generation of streaming stores for optimization. The compiler optimizes under the assumption that the application is memory bound.
.TP 15
never
Disables generation of streaming stores for optimization. Normal stores are performed.
.TP 15
auto
Lets the compiler decide which instructions to use.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qopt\-streaming\-stores=auto 
.NL
The compiler decides whether to use streaming stores or normal stores.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables generation of streaming stores for optimization. This method stores data with instructions that use a non\-temporal buffer, which minimizes memory hierarchy pollution.
.NL
.PP
This option may be useful for applications that can benefit from streaming stores.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-subscript\-in\-range
.TP
.B
\-qno\-opt\-subscript\-in\-range
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler assumes that there are no "large" integers being used or being computed inside loops. Option \-qopt\-subscript\-in\-range is the replacement option for \-opt\-subscript\-in\-range, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-qno\-opt\-subscript\-in\-range 
.NL
The compiler assumes  there are "large" integers being used or being computed within loops.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler assumes that there are no "large" integers being used or being computed inside loops.
.NL
.PP
If you specify [q or Q]opt\-subscript\-in\-range, the compiler assumes that there are no "large" integers being used or being computed inside loops. A "large" integer is typically > 231. 
.NL
.PP
This feature can enable more loop transformations.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-qopt\-threads\-per\-core=n (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Informs the compiler about the number of hardware threads per core that will be used for an application. This option only applies to Intel(R) MIC Architecture. Option \-qopt\-threads\-per\-core is the replacement option for \-opt\-threads\-per\-core, which is deprecated.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Only available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the number of hardware threads per core that the compiler should assume that will be used while executing the application. Possible values are 1, 2, 3, or 4.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
4
.NL
Four hardware threads per core are used for the application.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option informs the
compiler about the number of hardware threads per core that
will be used for an application. This enables the
compiler to perform better code optimizations (such as instruction
scheduling).
.NL
.PP
You should choose a value for \fIn\fR that is
based on how many threads will be used per core while executing the
application. For example, if the application is parallelized using
OpenMP* API, use the value of \fIn\fR that uses the same number of
threads per core as the OpenMP* API affinity setting will use when
executing the application code on the Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM)
coprocessor.
.NL
.PP
This option does not affect the number of
threads per core that will be used at run time.
.NL
.PP
Code compiled with this option can run
correctly on any (hardware\-supported) number of threads per
core.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Qoption,string,options
.RS
.TP
Passes options to a specified tool.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIstring\fR
.NL
Is the name of the tool.
.TP 18
\fIoptions\fR
.NL
Are one or more comma\-separated, valid options for
the designated tool.
.IP
Note that certain tools may require that options
appear within quotation marks (" ").
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No options are passed to tools.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option passes options to a specified tool.
.NL
.PP
If an argument contains a space or tab character, you
must enclose the entire argument in quotation marks (" "). You must separate
multiple arguments with commas.
.NL
.PP
\fIstring\fR can be any of the
following:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
fpp (or cpp) \- Indicates the Intel(R) Fortran
preprocessor or a user\-specified (alternate) Fortran preprocessor.
.IP \(bu 2
asm \- Indicates the assembler.
.IP \(bu 2
link \- Indicates the linker.
.IP \(bu 2
prof \- Indicates the profiler.
.IP \(bu 2
On Windows* systems, the following is also available:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
masm \- Indicates the Microsoft assembler.
.RE
.IP \(bu 2
On Linux* and OS X* systems, the following are also
available:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
as \- Indicates the assembler.
.IP \(bu 2
gas \- Indicates the GNU assembler.
.IP \(bu 2
ld \- Indicates the loader.
.IP \(bu 2
gld \- Indicates the GNU loader.
.IP \(bu 2
lib \- Indicates an additional library.
.IP \(bu 2
crt \- Indicates the crt%.o files linked into
executables to contain the place to start execution.
.RE
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-rcd
.RS
.TP
Enables fast float\-to\-integer conversions.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Floating\-point values are truncated when a conversion to an integer is involved. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables fast float\-to\-integer conversions. It can improve the performance of code that requires floating\-point\-to\-integer conversions.
.NL
.PP
The system default floating\-point rounding mode is round\-to\-nearest. However, the Fortran language requires floating\-point values to be truncated when a conversion to an integer is involved. To do this, the compiler must change the rounding mode to truncation before each floating\-point\-to\-integer conversion and change it back afterwards.
.NL
.PP
This option disables the change to truncation of the rounding mode for all floating\-point calculations, including floating point\-to\-integer conversions. This option can improve performance, but floating\-point conversions to integer will not conform to Fortran semantics.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-real\-size size
.RS
.TP
Specifies the default KIND for real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
size
.NL
Is the size for real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics. Possible values are: 32, 64, or 128.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
real\-size 32
.NL
Default real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics are 4 bytes long (REAL(KIND=4) and COMPLEX(KIND=4)).
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the default size (in bits) for real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
real\-size 32
.NL
Makes default real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics 4 bytes long. REAL declarations are treated as single precision REAL (REAL(KIND=4)) and COMPLEX declarations are treated as COMPLEX (COMPLEX(KIND=4)).  Real and complex constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in single precision (KIND=4).
.NL
.TP 18
real\-size 64
.NL
Makes default real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics 8 bytes long. REAL declarations are treated as DOUBLE PRECISION (REAL(KIND=8)) and COMPLEX declarations are treated as DOUBLE COMPLEX (COMPLEX(KIND=8)).  Real and complex constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in double precision (KIND=8).
.NL
.TP 18
real\-size 128
.NL
Makes default real and complex declarations, constants, functions, and intrinsics 16 bytes long. REAL declarations are treated as extended precision REAL (REAL(KIND=16)); COMPLEX and DOUBLE COMPLEX declarations are treated as extended precision COMPLEX (COMPLEX(KIND=16)).  Real and complex constants of unspecified KIND are evaluated in extended precision (KIND=16).
.NL
.PP
These compiler options can affect the result type of intrinsic procedures, such as CMPLX, FLOAT, REAL, SNGL, and AIMAG, which normally produce single\-precision REAL or COMPLEX results. To prevent this effect, you must explicitly declare the kind type for arguments of such intrinsic procedures.
.NL
.PP
For example, if real\-size 64 is specified, the CMPLX intrinsic will produce a result of type DOUBLE COMPLEX (COMPLEX(KIND=8)). To prevent this, you must explicitly declare any real argument to be REAL(KIND=4), and any complex argument to be COMPLEX(KIND=4).
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
real\-size 64
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-r8, \-autodouble
.TP 18
real\-size 128
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-r16
.RE
.TP
.B
\-recursive
.TP
.B
\-norecursive
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler that all routines should be compiled for possible recursive execution.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
norecursive
.NL
Routines are not compiled for possible recursive execution.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler that all routines should be compiled for possible recursive execution. It sets the automatic option.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-reentrancy 
keyword
.TP
.B
\-noreentrancy
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate reentrant
code to support a multithreaded application.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies details about the program. Possible
values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Tells the run\-time library (RTL) that the
program does not rely on threaded or asynchronous reentrancy. The RTL will not
guard against such interrupts inside its own critical regions. This is the same
as specifying noreentrancy.
.TP 15
async
Tells the run\-time library (RTL) that the
program may contain asynchronous (AST) handlers that could call the RTL. This
causes the RTL to guard against AST interrupts inside its own critical regions.
.TP 15
threaded
Tells the run\-time library (RTL) that the
program is multithreaded, such as programs using the POSIX threads library.
This causes the RTL to use thread locking to guard its own critical regions.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
threaded
.NL
The compiler tells the run\-time library (RTL) that
the program is multithreaded.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate reentrant code
to support a multithreaded application.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify a keyword for reentrancy, it is the
same as specifying 
reentrancy threaded.
.NL
.PP
To ensure that a threadsafe and/or reentrant run\-time
library is linked and correctly initialized, option 
reentrancy threaded should also be used for the link step and
for the compilation of the main routine.
.NL
.PP
Note that if option threads is specified, it sets option 
reentrancy threaded,
since multithreaded code must be reentrant.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-S
.RS
.TP
Causes the compiler to compile to an assembly file only and not link.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Normal compilation and linking occur.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the compiler to compile to an assembly file only and not link.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* and OS X* systems, the assembly file name has a .s suffix. On Windows* systems, the assembly file name has an .asm suffix.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-safe\-cray\-ptr
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler that Cray* pointers do
not alias other variables. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler assumes that Cray pointers alias other
variables. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler that Cray pointers do not
alias (that is, do not specify sharing memory with) other variables. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-save
.RS
.TP
Causes variables to be placed in static memory.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-auto\-scalar 
.NL
Scalar variables of intrinsic types INTEGER, REAL, COMPLEX, and LOGICAL are allocated to the run\-time stack. Note that the default changes to  auto
if one of the following options are specified:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
recursive
.IP \(bu 2
[q or Q]openmp
.RE
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option saves all variables in static allocation except local variables within a recursive routine and variables declared as AUTOMATIC.
.NL
.PP
If you want all local, non\-SAVEd variables to be allocated to the run\-time stack, specify option automatic.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-noauto
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-save\-temps
.TP
.B
\-no\-save\-temps
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to save intermediate
files created during compilation.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Linux* and OS X* systems: 
\-no\-save\-temps 
.NL
On Linux and OS X systems, the compiler deletes
intermediate files after compilation is completed. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to save intermediate files
created during compilation. The names of the files saved are based on the name
of the source file; the files are saved in the current working directory.
.NL
.PP
If option 
[Q]save\-temps is
specified, the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The object .o file (Linux and OS X) or .obj file
(Windows) is saved.
.IP \(bu 2
The assembler .s file (Linux and OS X) or .asm file
(Windows) is saved if you specified the 
[Q]use\-asm option.
.IP \(bu 2
The .i or .i90 file is saved if the fpp preprocessor is
invoked.
.PP
If 
\-no\-save\-temps is
specified on Linux or OS X systems, the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The .o file is put into 
/tmp and deleted after
calling 
ld.
.IP \(bu 2
The preprocessed file is not saved after it has been
used by the compiler.
.PP
If 
/Qsave\-temps\- is
specified on Windows systems, the following occurs:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The .obj file is not saved after the linker step.
.IP \(bu 2
The preprocessed file is not saved after it has been
used by the compiler.
.PP
.B NOTE:
This option only saves intermediate files that are
normally created during compilation.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-scalar\-rep
.TP
.B
\-no\-scalar\-rep
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables the scalar replacement optimization done by the compiler as part of loop transformations.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-scalar\-rep 
.NL
Scalar replacement is performed during loop transformation at optimization levels of O2 and above.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables the scalar replacement optimization done by the compiler as part of loop transformations. This option takes effect only if you specify an optimization level of O2 or higher.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-shared (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to produce a dynamic shared object instead of an executable.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler produces an executable.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to produce a dynamic shared object (DSO) instead of an executable. This includes linking in all libraries dynamically and passing \-shared to the linker.
.NL
.PP
You must specify option fpic for the compilation of each object file you want to include in the shared library.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-shared\-intel
.RS
.TP
Causes Intel\-provided libraries to be linked in dynamically.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Intel(R)
libraries are linked in statically, with the exception of Intel\[aq]s OpenMP* runtime support library, which is linked in dynamically.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes Intel\-provided libraries to be linked in dynamically. It is the opposite of \-static\-intel.
.NL
.PP
This option is processed by the ifort (icc/icpc) command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option \-mcmodel=medium or \-mcmodel=large, it sets option \-shared\-intel. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On OS X* systems, when you set "Intel Runtime Libraries" to "Dynamic", you must also set the DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable within Xcode* or an error will be displayed.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-shared\-libgcc (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Links the GNU libgcc library dynamically.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-shared\-libgcc
.NL
The compiler links the libgcc library dynamically.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option links the GNU libgcc library dynamically. It is the opposite of option static\-libgcc.
.NL
.PP
This option is processed by the ifort (icc/icpc) command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
This option is useful when you want to override the default behavior of the static option, which causes all libraries to be linked statically.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-show 
keyword[, 
keyword...]
.RS
.TP
Controls the contents of the listing
generated when option list is specified.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the contents for the listing. Possible
values are:
.RS
.TP 15
[no]include
Controls whether contents of files added with
INCLUDE statements are included when a listing is generated. 
.TP 15
[no]map
Controls whether a symbol listing with a line number
cross\-reference for each routine is included when a listing is generated. 
.TP 15
[no]options
Controls whether a list of compiler options
used for the compilation is included when a listing is generated.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
include, 
map, and 
options
.NL
When a listing is generated, it contains the
contents of INCLUDEd files, a symbol list with a line number cross reference,
and a list of compiler options used.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option controls the contents of the listing generated when option 
list is specified.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option 
show and do not specify option 
list, the option is ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-simd
.TP
.B
\-no\-simd
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables compiler
interpretation of 
SIMD directives. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-simd 
.NL
SIMD 
directives are enabled. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables compiler interpretation of 
SIMD directives. 
.NL
.PP
To disable interpretation of 
SIMD directives, specify 
\-no\-simd (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qsimd\- (Windows*). Note that the compiler may still vectorize
loops based on its own heuristics (leading to generation of SIMD instructions)
even when 
\-no\-simd (or 
/Qsimd\-) is specified. 
.NL
.PP
To disable all compiler vectorization, use the "\-no\-vec
\-no\-simd" (Linux* and OS X*) or "/Qvec\- /Qsimd\-"
(Windows*) compiler options. The option 
\-no\-vec (and 
/Qvec\-) disables all auto\-vectorization, including
vectorization of array notation statements. The option 
\-no\-simd (and 
/Qsimd\-) disables vectorization of loops that have 
SIMD directives. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you specify option 
\-mia32 or option 
/arch:IA32, 
SIMD directives are disabled by default.
When you specify option 
\-mia32 or option 
/arch:IA32, vector instructions cannot be used. Therefore,
you cannot explicitly enable SIMD 
directives by specifying option 
[Q]simd. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-sox[=keyword[,keyword]] (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-no\-sox (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to save the compilation options and version number in the executable file.  It also lets you choose whether to include lists of certain routines.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Is the routine information to include. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
inline
Includes a list of the routines that were inlined in each object.
.TP 15
profile
Includes a list of the routines that were compiled with the \-prof\-use option and for which the .dpi file had profile information, and an indication for each as to whether the profile information was USED (matched) or IGNORED (mismatched).
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-sox
.NL
The compiler does not save these informational strings in the object file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to save the compilation options and version number in the executable file.  It also lets you choose whether to include lists of certain routines.  The information is embedded as a string in each object file or assembly output.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option sox with no \fIkeyword\fR,
the compiler saves the compiler options and version number used in
the compilation of the objects that make up the
executable.
.NL
.PP
When you specify this option, the size of the executable on disk is
increased slightly. Each \fIkeyword\fR  you specify
increases the size of the executable.
When you link the object files into an executable file, the linker
places each of the information strings into the header of the
executable. It is then possible to use a tool, such as a strings
utility, to determine what options were used to build the
executable file.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-stand [keyword]
.TP
.B
\-nostand
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to issue compile\-time messages for nonstandard language elements.
.NL
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the language to use as the standard. Possible values are:
.RS
.TP 15
none
Issues no messages for nonstandard language elements.
.TP 15
f90
Issues messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 90.
.TP 15
f95
Issues messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 95.
.TP 15
f03
Issues messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 2003.
.TP 15
f08
Issues messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 2008.
.TP 15
f15
Issues messages for language elements that are not standard in draft Fortran 2015.
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nostand
.NL
The compiler issues no messages for nonstandard language elements.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to issue compile\-time messages for nonstandard language elements.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify a keyword for stand, it is the same as specifying stand f08.
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
stand none
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue no messages for nonstandard language elements. This is the same as specifying nostand.
.NL
.TP 18
stand f90
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 90.
.NL
.TP 18
stand f95
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 95.
.NL
.TP 18
stand f03
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 2003. 
.NL
.TP 18
stand f08
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue messages for language elements that are not standard in Fortran 2008. This option is set if you specify warn stderrors.
.NL
.TP 18
stand f15
.NL
Tells the compiler to issue messages for language elements that are not standard in draft Fortran 2015.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
stand none
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-nostand
.TP 18
stand f90
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-std90
.TP 18
stand f95
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-std95
.TP 18
stand f03
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-std03
.TP 18
stand f08
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-std08, \-stand, \-std
.TP 18
stand f15
.NL
Linux and OS X: \-std15
.RE
.TP
.B
\-standard\-realloc\-lhs
.TP
.B
\-nostandard\-realloc\-lhs
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler uses the
current Fortran Standard rules or the old Fortran 2003 rules when interpreting
assignment statements. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
standard\-realloc\-lhs
.NL
The compiler uses the current Fortran Standard
rules when interpreting assignment statements. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler uses the
current Fortran Standard rules or the old Fortran 2003 rules when interpreting
assignment statements. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
standard\-realloc\-lhs (the default), tells the compiler that
when the left\-hand side of an assignment is an allocatable object, it should be
reallocated to the shape of the right\-hand side of the assignment before the
assignment occurs. This is the current Fortran Standard definition. This
feature may cause extra overhead at run time. This option has the same effect
as option 
assume realloc_lhs. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify 
nostandard\-realloc\-lhs, the compiler uses the old Fortran 2003
rules when interpreting assignment statements. The left\-hand side is assumed to
be allocated with the correct shape to hold the right\-hand side. If it is not,
incorrect behavior will occur. This option has the same effect as option 
assume norealloc_lhs. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-standard\-semantics 
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the current Fortran
Standard behavior of the compiler is fully implemented. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF 
.NL
The compiler implements most but not all of the current Fortran
Standard behavior. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the current Fortran Standard behavior of the
compiler is fully implemented. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify option 
standard\-semantics, it enables all of the options that
implement the current Fortran Standard behavior of the compiler, which is
Fortran 2008 features. 
.NL
.PP
Option 
standard\-semantics enables option 
fpscomp logicals and the following settings for option 
assume: byterecl, fpe_summary, ieee_fpe_flags (if the 
fp\-model option setting is 
strict or 
precise), minus0, noold_ldout_format, noold_maxminloc,
noold_unit_star, noold_xor, protect_parens, realloc_lhs1, std_intent_in, std_minus0_rounding1This is the default setting for
this assume option., std_mod_proc_name, and std_value1. 
.NL
.PP
If you specify option 
standard\-semantics and also explicitly specify a different
setting for an affected 
assume option, the value you specify takes effect. It
overrides the settings enabled by option 
standard\-semantics. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-static (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Prevents linking with shared libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Linux: OFF  Windows: varies
.NL
On Linux* systems, the compiler links with shared libraries. On Windows* systems, /static is equivalent to option /MT.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option prevents linking with shared libraries. It causes the executable to link all libraries statically.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-static\-intel
.RS
.TP
Causes Intel\-provided libraries to be linked in statically.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
ON
.NL
Intel
libraries are linked in statically, with the exception of Intel\[aq]s OpenMP* runtime support library, which is linked in dynamically.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes Intel\-provided libraries to be linked in statically. It is the opposite of \-shared\-intel.
.NL
.PP
This option is processed by the ifort (icc/icpc) command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option \-static\-intel while option \-mcmodel=medium or \-mcmodel=large is set, an error will be displayed.
.NL
.PP
If you specify option static\-intel and any of the Intel\-provided libraries have no static version, a diagnostic will be displayed.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-staticlib (M*X only)
.RS
.TP
Invokes the libtool command to generate static libraries.
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting Intel(R) MIC Architecture
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler produces an executable.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option invokes the libtool command to generate static libraries. This option is processed by the command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
When passed this option, the compiler uses the libtool command to produce a static library instead of an executable when linking. 
.NL
.PP
To build dynamic libraries, you should specify option \-dynamiclib or libtool \-dynamic <objects>.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-static\-libgcc (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Links the GNU libgcc library statically.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler links the GNU libgcc library dynamically.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option links the GNU libgcc library statically. It is the opposite of option \-shared\-libgcc.
.NL
.PP
This option is processed by the ifort (icc/icpc) command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
This option is useful when you want to override the default behavior, which causes the library to be linked dynamically.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-static\-libstdc++ (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Links the GNU libstdc++ library statically.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The compiler links the GNU libstdc++ library dynamically.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option links the GNU libstdc++ library statically.  This option is processed by the ifort (icc/icpc) command that initiates linking, adding library names explicitly to the link command.
.NL
.PP
This option is useful when you want to override the default behavior, which causes the library to be linked dynamically.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-syntax\-only 
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to check only for correct syntax.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Normal compilation is performed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to check only for correct syntax. It lets you do a quick syntax check of your source file.
.NL
.PP
Compilation stops after the source file has been parsed. No code is generated, no object file is produced, and some error checking done by the optimizer is bypassed.
.NL
.PP
Warnings and messages appear on stderr.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux: \-y, \-fsyntax\-only, \-syntax (this is a deprecated option)
.NL
.PP
OS X: \-y, \-fsyntax\-only
.NL
.PP
Windows: /Zs
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Tfilename (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Tells the linker to read link commands from a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of the file.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The linker does not read link commands from a file.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the linker to read link commands from a file.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-tcollect[lib] (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Inserts instrumentation probes calling the Intel(R) Trace Collector API.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIlib\fR
.NL
Is one of the Intel(R) Trace Collector libraries; for example, VT, VTcs, VTmc, or VTfs. If you do not specify \fIlib\fR, the default library is VT.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Instrumentation probes are not inserted into compiled applications.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option inserts instrumentation probes calling the Intel(R) Trace Collector API. 
.NL
.PP
This trace analyzing/collecting feature requires installation of another product. For more information, see Feature Requirements.
.NL
.PP
This option provides a flexible and convenient way of instrumenting functions of a compiled application. For every function, the entry and exit points are instrumented at compile time to let the Intel(R) Trace Collector record functions beyond the default MPI calls. For non\-MPI applications (for example, threaded or serial), you must ensure that the Intel(R) Trace Collector is properly initialized (VT_initialize/VT_init).
.NL
.PP
.B CAUTION:
Be careful with full instrumentation because this feature can produce very large trace files.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-tcollect\-filter filename (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Lets you enable or disable the
instrumentation of specified functions.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is a configuration file that lists filters, one per
line. Each filter consists of a regular expression string and a switch. Strings
with leading or trailing white spaces must be quoted. Other strings do not have
to be quoted. The switch value can be ON, on, OFF, or off.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Functions are not instrumented. However, if option 
\-tcollect
(Linux) is specified, the filter setting is ".* ON" and all functions
get instrumented. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option lets you enable or disable the
instrumentation of specified functions. 
.NL
.PP
During instrumentation, the regular expressions in the
file are matched against the function names. The switch specifies whether
matching functions are to be instrumented or not. Multiple filters are
evaluated from top to bottom with increasing precedence. 
.NL
.PP
The names of the functions to match against are formatted
as follows:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
The source file name is followed by a colon\-separated
function name. Source file names should contain the full path, if available.
For example: 
.IP
/home/joe/src/file.f:FOO_bar
.IP \(bu 2
Classes and function names are separated by double
colons. For example:
.IP
/home/joe/src/file.fpp:app::foo::bar
.PP
You can use option 
[q or Q]opt\-report to get
a full list of file and function names that the compiler recognizes from the
compilation unit. This list can be used as the basis for filtering in the
configuration file.
.NL
.PP
This trace analyzing/collecting feature requires
installation of another product. For more information, see 
Feature Requirements.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-threads
.TP
.B
\-nothreads
.RS
.TP
Tells the linker to search for unresolved
references in a multithreaded run\-time library. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
threads
.NL
The linker searches for unresolved
references in a library that supports enabling thread\-safe operation.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the linker to search for unresolved
references in a multithreaded run\-time library. 
.NL
.PP
This option sets option 
reentrancy threaded. 
.NL
.PP
Windows systems: The following table shows which options
to specify for a multithreaded run\-time library. 
.NL
.PP
To ensure that a threadsafe and/or reentrant run\-time
library is linked and correctly initialized, option 
threads should also be used for the link step and for the
compilation of the main routine. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
On Windows* systems, this option is processed by the
compiler, which adds directives to the compiled object file that are processed
by the linker. On Linux* and OS X* systems, this option is processed by the 
ifort command that initiates linking, adding library
names explicitly to the link command. 
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-traceback
.TP
.B
\-notraceback
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate extra information in the object file to provide source file traceback information when a severe error occurs at run time.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
notraceback
.NL
No extra information is generated in the object file to produce traceback information.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate extra information in the object file to provide source file traceback information when a severe error occurs at run time.
.NL
.PP
When the severe error occurs, source file, routine name, and line number correlation information is displayed along with call stack hexadecimal addresses (program counter trace).
.NL
.PP
Note that when a severe error occurs, advanced users can also locate the cause of the error using a map file and the hexadecimal addresses of the stack displayed when the error occurs.
.NL
.PP
This option increases the size of the executable program, but has no impact on run\-time execution speeds.
.NL
.PP
It functions independently of the debug option.
.NL
.PP
On Windows* systems, traceback sets the /Oy\- option, which forces the compiler to use EBP as the stack frame pointer.
.NL
.PP
On Windows* systems, the linker places the traceback information in the executable image, in a section named ".trace". To see which sections are in an image, use the command:
.NL
.PP
link \-dump \-summary your_app_name.exe
.PP
.PP
To see more detailed information, use the command:
.NL
.PP
link \-dump \-headers your_app_name.exe
.PP
.PP
On Windows* systems, when requesting traceback, you must set Enable Incremental Linking in the VS .NET* IDE Linker Options to No. You must also set Omit Frame Pointers (the /Oy option) in the Optimization Options to "No."
.NL
.PP
On Linux* systems, to display the section headers in the image (including the header for the .trace section, if any), use the command:
.NL
.PP
objdump \-h your_app_name.exe
.PP
.PP
On OS X* systems, to display the section headers in the image, use the command:
.NL
.PP
otool \-l your_app_name.exe
.PP
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Uname
.RS
.TP
Undefines any definition currently in effect for the specified symbol.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIname\fR
.NL
Is the name of the symbol to be undefined.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Symbol definitions are in effect until they are undefined.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option undefines any definition currently in effect for the specified symbol. 
.NL
.PP
On Windows systems, use the /u option to undefine all previously defined preprocessor values.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: None
.NL
.PP
Windows: /undefine:\fIname\fR
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-unroll[=n]
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler the maximum number of times to unroll loops.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is the maximum number of times a loop can be unrolled. To disable loop enrolling, specify 0.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-unroll 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when unrolling loops.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler the maximum number of times to unroll loops.
.NL
.PP
If you do not specify \fIn\fR, the optimizer determines how many times loops can be unrolled.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-funroll\-loops
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-unroll\-aggressive
.TP
.B
\-no\-unroll\-aggressive
.RS
.TP
Determines whether the compiler uses more aggressive unrolling for certain loops.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-no\-unroll\-aggressive 
.NL
The compiler uses default heuristics when unrolling loops.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines whether the compiler uses more aggressive unrolling for certain loops. The positive form of the option may improve performance.
.NL
.PP
This option enables aggressive, complete unrolling for loops with small constant trip counts.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-v [filename]
.RS
.TP
Specifies that driver tool commands should be displayed and executed.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIfilename\fR
.NL
Is the name of a source file to be compiled. A space must appear before the file name.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No tool commands are shown.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies that driver tool commands should be displayed and executed. 
.NL
.PP
If you use this option without specifying a source file name, the compiler displays only the version of the compiler.
.NL
.PP
If you want to display processing information (pass information and source file names), specify keyword all for the watch option.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: \-watch cmd
.NL
.PP
Windows: /watch:cmd
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-vec
.TP
.B
\-no\-vec
.RS
.TP
Enables or disables vectorization.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-vec 
.NL
Vectorization is enabled if option 
O2 or higher is in effect.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option enables or disables vectorization.
.NL
.PP
To disable vectorization, specify 
\-no\-vec (Linux* and OS
X*) or 
/Qvec\- (Windows*). 
.NL
.PP
To disable interpretation of SIMD 
directives, specify 
\-no\-simd (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qsimd\- (Windows*).
.NL
.PP
To disable all compiler vectorization, use the "\-no\-vec
\-no\-simd" (Linux* and OS X*) or "/Qvec\- /Qsimd\-"
(Windows*) compiler options. The option 
\-no\-vec (and 
/Qvec\-) disables all auto\-vectorization, including
vectorization of array notation statements. The option 
\-no\-simd (and 
/Qsimd\-) disables vectorization of loops that have SIMD 
directives. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
Using this option enables vectorization at default
optimization levels for both Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel
microprocessors. Vectorization may call library routines that can result in
additional performance gain on Intel microprocessors than on non\-Intel
microprocessors. The vectorization can also be affected by certain options,
such as 
/arch (Windows), 
\-m (Linux and OS X), or 
[Q]x.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-vec\-guard\-write
.TP
.B
\-no\-vec\-guard\-write
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to perform a conditional check in a vectorized loop.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-vec\-guard\-write 
.NL
The  compiler  performs a conditional check in a vectorized loop.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to perform a conditional check in a vectorized loop. This checking avoids unnecessary stores and may improve performance.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-vec\-threshold[n]
.RS
.TP
Sets a threshold for the vectorization of
loops. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIn\fR
.NL
Is an integer whose value is the threshold for the
vectorization of loops. Possible values are 0 through 100. 
.IP
If 
\fIn\fR is 0, loops
get vectorized always, regardless of computation work volume. 
.IP
If 
\fIn\fR is 100,
loops get vectorized when performance gains are predicted based on the compiler
analysis data. Loops get vectorized only if profitable vector\-level parallel
execution is almost certain. 
.IP
The intermediate 1 to 99 values represent the
percentage probability for profitable speed\-up. For example, 
\fIn\fR=50 directs
the compiler to vectorize only if there is a 50% probability of the code
speeding up if executed in vector form. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-vec\-threshold100 
.NL
Loops get vectorized only if profitable
vector\-level parallel execution is almost certain. This is also the default if
you do not specify 
\fIn\fR. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option sets a threshold for the vectorization of
loops based on the probability of profitable execution of the vectorized loop
in parallel. 
.NL
.PP
This option is useful for loops whose computation work
volume cannot be determined at compile\-time. The threshold is usually relevant
when the loop trip count is unknown at compile\-time. 
.NL
.PP
The compiler applies a heuristic that tries to balance
the overhead of creating multiple threads versus the amount of work available
to be shared amongst the threads. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-vecabi=keyword
.RS
.TP
Determines which vector function
application binary interface (ABI) the compiler uses to create or call vector
functions. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIkeyword\fR
.NL
Specifies which vector function ABI to use.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
compat
Tells the compiler to use the
compatibility vector function ABI. This ABI includes Intel(R)\-specific features. 
.TP 15
cmdtarget
Tells the compiler to
generate an extended set of vector functions. The option is very similar to
setting 
compat. However, for 
compat, only one vector function is created,
while for 
cmdtarget, several vector functions are
created for each vector specification. Vector variants are created for targets
specified by compiler options 
[Q]x and/or 
[Q]ax. No change is made to the source code. 
.TP 15
gcc
Tells the compiler to use
the gcc vector function ABI. Use this setting only in cases when you want to
link with modules compiled by gcc. This setting is not available on Windows*
systems. 
.TP 15
legacy
Tells the compiler to use the
legacy vector function ABI. Use this setting if you need to keep the generated
vector function binary backward compatible with the vectorized binary generated
by older versions of the Intel(R) compilers (V13.1 or older). 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
compat
.NL
The compiler uses the compatibility vector function
ABI. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option determines which vector function application binary interface
(ABI) the compiler uses to create or call vector functions. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
To avoid possible link\-time and run\-time errors, use
identical 
[Q]vecabi settings when compiling all files in an
application that define or use vector functions, including libraries. If
setting 
cmdtarget is specified, options 
[Q]x and/or 
[Q]ax must have identical values. 
.PP
Be careful using setting 
cmdtarget with libraries or program modules/routines
with vector function definitions that cannot be recompiled. In such cases,
setting 
cmdtarget may cause link errors. 
.PP
On Linux* systems, since the default is 
compat, you must specify 
legacy if you need to keep the generated vector function
binary backward compatible with the vectorized binary generated by the previous
version of Intel(R) compilers. 
.NL
.PP
When 
cmdtarget is specified, the additional vector function
versions are created by copying each vector specification and changing target
processor in the copy. The number of vector functions is determined by the
settings specified in options 
[Q]x and/or 
[Q]ax. 
.NL
.PP
For example, suppose we have the following function
declaration: 
.NL
.PP
interface
integer function foo(a)
!dir$ attributes vector:(processor(core_2_duo_sse4_1)) :: foo
integer a
end function
end interface
.PP
.PP
and the following options are specified:
\-axAVX,CORE\-AVX2
.NL
.PP
The following table shows the different
results for the above declaration and option specifications when setting 
compat or setting 
cmdtarget is used: 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBcompat 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBcmdtarget 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
One vector version is created for Intel(R) SSE4.1 (by vector
function specification). 
.NL
Four vector versions are created for the following targets: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Intel(R) SSE2 (default because no 
\-x option is used) 
.IP \(bu 2
Intel(R) SSE4.1 (by vector function specification) 
.IP \(bu 2
Intel(R) AVX (by the first 
\-ax option value) 
.IP \(bu 2
Intel(R) AVX2 (by the second 
\-ax option value) 
.RE
.NL
.PP
For more information about the Intel(R)\-compatible vector
functions ABI, see the Vector Function ABI document available in the Open
Specifications section at cilkplus.org. 
.NL
.PP
For more information about the GCC vector functions ABI,
see the item Libmvec \- vector math library document in the GLIBC wiki at
sourceware.org. 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-vms
.TP
.B
\-novms
.RS
.TP
Causes the run\-time system to behave like HP* Fortran on OpenVMS* Alpha systems and VAX* systems (VAX FORTRAN*).
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
novms
.NL
The run\-time system follows default Intel(R) Fortran behavior.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option causes the run\-time system to behave like HP* Fortran on OpenVMS* Alpha systems and VAX* systems (VAX FORTRAN*).
.NL
.PP
It affects the following language features:
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Certain defaults
In the absence of other options, vms sets the defaults as check format and check output_conversion.
.IP \(bu 2
Alignment
Option vms does not affect the alignment of fields in records or items in common blocks. For compatibility with HP Fortran on OpenVMS systems, use align norecords to pack fields of records on the next byte boundary.
.IP \(bu 2
Carriage control default
If option vms and option ccdefault default are specified, carriage control defaults to FORTRAN if the file is formatted and the unit is connected to a terminal.
.IP \(bu 2
INCLUDE qualifiers
/LIST and /NOLIST are recognized at the end of the file name in an INCLUDE statement at compile time. If the file name in the INCLUDE statement does not specify the complete path, the path used is the current directory. Note that if vms is not specified, the path used is the directory where the file that contains the INCLUDE statement resides.
.IP \(bu 2
Quotation mark character
A quotation mark (") character is recognized as starting an octal constant ("0..7) instead of a character literal ("...").
.IP \(bu 2
Deleted records in relative files
When a record in a relative file is deleted, the first byte of that record is set to a known character (currently \[aq]@\[aq] ). Attempts to read that record later result in ATTACCNON errors. The rest of the record (the whole record, if vms is not specified) is set to nulls for unformatted files and spaces for formatted files.
.IP \(bu 2
ENDFILE records
When an ENDFILE is performed on a sequential unit, an actual 1\-byte record containing a Ctrl/Z is written to the file. If vms is not specified, an internal ENDFILE flag is set and the file is truncated. The vms option does not affect ENDFILE on relative files: these files are truncated.
.IP \(bu 2
Implied logical unit numbers
The vms option enables Intel(R) Fortran to recognize certain environment variables at run time for ACCEPT, PRINT, and TYPE statements and for READ and WRITE statements that do not specify a unit number (such as READ (*,1000)).
.IP \(bu 2
Treatment of blanks in input
The vms option causes the defaults for the keyword BLANK in OPEN statements to become \[aq]NULL\[aq] for an explicit OPEN and \[aq]ZERO\[aq] for an implicit OPEN of an external or internal file.
.IP \(bu 2
OPEN statement effects
Carriage control defaults to FORTRAN if the file is formatted, and the unit is connected to a terminal. Otherwise, carriage control defaults to LIST. The vms option affects the record length for direct access and relative organization files. The buffer size is increased by 1 to accommodate the deleted record character.
.IP \(bu 2
Reading deleted records and ENDFILE records
The run\-time direct access READ routine checks the first byte of the retrieved record. If this byte is \[aq]@\[aq] or NULL ("\0"), then an ATTACCNON error is returned. The run\-time sequential access READ routine checks to see if the record it just read is one byte long and contains a Ctrl/Z. If this is true, it returns EOF.
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Wa,option1[,option2,...]
.RS
.TP
Passes options to the assembler for processing.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIoption\fR
.NL
Is an assembler option. This option is not processed by the driver and is directly passed to the assembler.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No options are passed to the assembler.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option passes one or more options to the assembler for processing. If the assembler is not invoked, these options are ignored.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-warn [keyword[, 
keyword...]]
.TP
.B
\-nowarn
.RS
.TP
Specifies diagnostic messages to be
issued by the compiler. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Specifies the diagnostic messages to be issued.
Possible values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Disables all warning messages. 
.TP 15
[no]alignments
Determines whether warnings occur for data
that is not naturally aligned. 
.TP 15
[no]declarations
Determines whether warnings occur for any
undeclared names. 
.TP 15
[no]errors
Determines whether warnings are changed to
errors. 
.TP 15
[no]general
Determines whether warning messages and
informational messages are issued by the compiler. 
.TP 15
[no]ignore_loc
Determines whether warnings occur when %LOC
is stripped from an actual argument. 
.TP 15
[no]interfaces
Determines whether the compiler checks the
interfaces of all SUBROUTINEs called and FUNCTIONs invoked in your compilation
against an external set of interface blocks. 
.TP 15
[no]stderrors
Determines whether warnings about Fortran
standard violations are changed to errors. 
.TP 15
[no]truncated_source
Determines whether warnings occur when source
exceeds the maximum column width in fixed\-format files. 
.TP 15
[no]uncalled
Determines whether warnings occur when a
statement function is never called 
.TP 15
[no]unused
Determines whether warnings occur for
declared variables that are never used. 
.TP 15
[no]usage
Determines whether warnings occur for
questionable programming practices. 
.TP 15
all
Enables all warning messages except errors
and stderrors. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
alignments
.NL
Warnings are issued about data that is not
naturally aligned. 
.TP 18
general
.NL
All information\-level and warning\-level messages
are enabled. 
.TP 18
usage
.NL
Warnings are issued for questionable programming
practices. 
.TP 18
nodeclarations
.NL
No warnings are issued for undeclared names. 
.TP 18
noerrors
.NL
Warning\-level messages are not changed to
error\-level messages. 
.TP 18
noignore_loc
.NL
No warnings are issued when %LOC is stripped from
an argument. 
.TP 18
nointerfaces
.NL
The compiler does not check interfaces of
SUBROUTINEs called and FUNCTIONs invoked in your compilation against an
external set of interface blocks. 
.TP 18
nostderrors
.NL
Warning\-level messages about Fortran standards
violations are not changed to error\-level messages. 
.TP 18
notruncated_source
.NL
No warnings are issued when source exceeds the
maximum column width in fixed\-format files. 
.TP 18
nouncalled
.NL
No warnings are issued when a statement function is
not called. 
.TP 18
nounused
.NL
No warnings are issued for variables that are
declared but never used. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option specifies the diagnostic messages to be
issued by the compiler. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
warn none
.NL
Disables all warning messages. This is the same
as specifying 
nowarn. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn noalignments
.NL
Disables warnings about data that is not
naturally aligned. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn declarations
.NL
Enables warnings about any undeclared names.
The compiler will use the default implicit data typing rules for such
undeclared names. The IMPLICIT and IMPLICIT NONE statements override this
option. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn errors
.NL
Tells the compiler to change all warning\-level
messages to error\-level messages; this includes warnings about Fortran
standards violations. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn nogeneral
.NL
Disables all informational\-level and
warning\-level diagnostic messages. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn ignore_loc
.NL
Enables warnings when %LOC is stripped from an
actual argument. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn interfaces
.NL
Tells the compiler to check the interfaces of
all SUBROUTINEs called and FUNCTIONs invoked in your compilation against a set
of interface blocks stored separately from the source being compiled. 
.TP 18
The compiler generates a compile\-time message
if the interface used to invoke a routine does not match the interface defined
in a .mod file external to the source (that is, in a .mod generated by option 
gen\-interfaces
as opposed to a .mod file USEd in the source). The compiler looks for these
.mods in the current directory or in the directory specified by the include
(\-I) or 
\-module option.
If interface mismatches occur, some will result in a compile\-time error, others
will only generate a warning. 
.TP 18
By default, 
warn interfaces turns on option 
gen\-interfaces. You can turn off that option by
explicitly specifying option 
/gen\-interfaces\- (Windows*) or 
\-no\-gen\-interfaces (Linux* and OS X*). 
.NL
.TP 18
warn stderrors
.NL
Tells the compiler to change all warning\-level
messages about Fortran standards violations to error\-level messages. This
option sets the 
\fIstand\fR option. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn truncated_source
.NL
Enables warnings when a source line exceeds the
maximum column width in fixed\-format source files. The maximum column width for
fixed\-format files is 72, 80, or 132, depending on the setting of the 
extend\-source
option. The 
warn
truncated_source option has no effect on truncation; lines that exceed
the maximum column width are always truncated. This option does not apply to
free\-format source files. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn uncalled
.NL
Enables warnings when a statement function is
never called. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn unused
.NL
Enables warnings for variables that are
declared but never used. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn nousage
.NL
Disables warnings about questionable
programming practices. Questionable programming practices, although allowed,
often are the result of programming errors; for example: a continued character
or Hollerith literal whose first part ends before the statement field and
appears to end with trailing spaces. Note that the 
/pad\-source
option can prevent this error. 
.NL
.TP 18
warn all
.NL
This is the same as specifying 
warn. This
option does not set options 
warn errors or 
warn stderrors.
To enable all the additional checking to be performed and force the severity of
the diagnostic messages to be severe enough to not generate an object file,
specify 
warn allwarn errors or 
warn allwarn stderrors.
.TP 18
On Windows systems: In the Property Pages, 
\fB Custom\fR means that diagnostics
will be specified on an individual basis. 
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
warn none
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-nowarn, 
\-w, 
\-W0, 
\-warn nogeneral
.TP 18
warn
declarations 
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-implicitnone, 
\-u
.TP 18
warn
nodeclarations
.NL
Linux and OS X: None 
.TP 18
warn
general
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-W1
.TP 18
warn
nogeneral
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-W0, 
\-w, 
\-nowarn, 
\-warn none
.TP 18
warn
stderrors
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-e90, 
\-e95, 
\-e03
.TP 18
warn
all
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-warn
.RE
.TP
.B
\-watch[=keyword[, 
keyword...]]
.TP
.B
\-nowatch
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to display certain
information to the console output window. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
keyword
.NL
Determines what information is displayed. Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
none
Disables 
cmd and 
source. 
.TP 15
[no]cmd
Determines whether driver tool commands are
displayed and executed. 
.TP 15
[no]source
Determines whether the name of the file being
compiled is displayed. 
.TP 15
mic\-cmd
Enables display of compiler options that are
passed to the offload compilation. This keyword is only available on Intel(R) 64
architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
.TP 15
all
Enables 
cmd and 
source. 
.RE
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
nowatch
.NL
Pass information and source file names are not
displayed to the console output window. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
Tells the compiler to display processing information
(pass information and source file names) to the console output window. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBOption 
watchkeyword\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
none
.NL
Tells the compiler to not display pass
information and source file names to the console output window. This is the
same as specifying 
nowatch. 
.NL
.TP 18
cmd
.NL
Tells the compiler to display and execute
driver tool commands. 
.NL
.TP 18
source
.NL
Tells the compiler to display the name of the
file being compiled. 
.NL
.TP 18
mic\-cmd
.NL
Tells the compiler to display the compiler
options that are passed to the offload compilation. Only the options that are
automatically passed are displayed. If this keyword is specified on an
architecture other than Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner),
results vary. It may be ignored, have no effect, or produce an error. 
.NL
.TP 18
all
.NL
Tells the compiler to display pass information
and source file names to the console output window. This is the same as
specifying 
watch with no 
\fIkeyword\fR. 
For heterogeneous compilation, the tool commands for the host and the offload
compilations will be displayed.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.TP 18
watch cmd
.NL
Linux and OS X: 
\-v
.RE
.TP
.B
\-WB
.RS
.TP
Turns a compile\-time bounds check into a warning.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Compile\-time bounds checks are errors.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option turns a compile\-time bounds check into a warning.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-what
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to display its detailed version string.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
The version strings are not displayed.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to display its detailed version string.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Winline
.RS
.TP
Warns when a function that is declared as inline is not inlined.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No warning is produced when a function that is declared as inline is not inlined.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option warns when a function that is declared as inline is not inlined. 
.NL
.PP
To see diagnostic messages, including a message about why a particular function was not inlined, you should generate an optimization report by specifying option \-qopt\-report=5.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Wl,option1[,option2,...]
.RS
.TP
Passes options to the linker for processing.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIoption\fR
.NL
Is a linker option. This option is not processed by the driver and is directly passed to the linker.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No options are passed to the linker.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option passes one or more options to the linker for processing. If the linker is not invoked, these options are ignored.
.NL
.PP
This option is equivalent to specifying option \-Qoption,link,\fIoptions\fR.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Wp,option1[,option2,...]
.RS
.TP
Passes options to the preprocessor.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIoption\fR
.NL
Is a preprocessor option. This option is not processed by the driver and is directly passed to the preprocessor.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No options are passed to the preprocessor.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option passes one or more options to the preprocessor. If the preprocessor is not invoked, these options are ignored.
.NL
.PP
This option is equivalent to specifying option \-Qoption,\fIfpp\fR\fI, options\fR.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-wrap\-margin (L*X only)
.TP
.B
\-no\-wrap\-margin (L*X only)
.RS
.TP
Provides a way to disable the right
margin wrapping that occurs in Fortran list\-directed output.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
wrap\-margin
.NL
The right margin wraps at column 80 if the record
length is greater than 80 characters.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option provides a way to disable the right margin wrapping that occurs
in Fortran list\-directed output. By default, when the record being written
becomes longer than 80 characters, the record is wrapped to a new record at
what is called the "right margin".
.NL
.PP
Specify 
\-no\-wrap\-margin (Linux*) or 
/wrap\-margin\- (Windows*) to disable this behavior.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-xcode
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler which processor
features it may target, including which instruction sets and optimizations it
may generate. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIcode\fR
.NL
Indicates to the compiler a feature set that it
may target, including which instruction sets and optimizations it may generate.
Many of the following descriptions refer to Intel(R) Streaming SIMD Extensions
(Intel(R) SSE) and Supplemental Streaming SIMD Extensions (Intel(R) SSSE). Possible
values are: 
.RS
.TP 15
COMMON\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, as well as the instructions enabled with
CORE\-AVX2. Optimizes for Intel(R) processors that support Intel(R) AVX\-512
instructions. 
.TP 15
MIC\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Exponential and Reciprocal
instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Prefetch instructions for Intel(R) processors, and
the instructions enabled with CORE\-AVX2. Optimizes for Intel(R) processors that
support Intel(R) AVX\-512 instructions. 
.IP
This keyword is only
available on Windows* and Linux* systems. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX512
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512
Conflict Detection instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Doubleword and Quadword
instructions, Intel(R) AVX\-512 Byte and Word instructions and Intel(R) AVX\-512
Vector Length extensions, as well as the instructions enabled with CORE\-AVX2.
Optimizes for Intel(R) processors that support Intel(R) AVX\-512 instructions. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX2
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions 2 (Intel(R) AVX2), Intel(R) AVX, SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and
SSSE3 instructions for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel(R) processors that
support Intel(R) AVX2 instructions. 
.TP 15
CORE\-AVX\-I
May generate 
the RDRND instruction, Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions
(Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions
for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel(R) processors that support 
the RDRND instruction. 
.TP 15
AVX
May generate Intel(R) Advanced Vector
Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) SSE4.2, SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3
instructions for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel processors that support
Intel(R) AVX instructions. 
.TP 15
SSE4.2
May generate Intel(R) SSE4 Efficient
Accelerated String and Text Processing instructions, Intel(R) SSE4 Vectorizing
Compiler and Media Accelerator, and Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3
instructions for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel processors that support
Intel(R) SSE4.2 instructions. 
.TP 15
SSE4.1
May generate Intel(R) SSE4 Vectorizing
Compiler and Media Accelerator instructions for Intel(R) processors. May generate
Intel(R) SSE4.1, SSE3, SSE2, SSE, and SSSE3 instructions for Intel processors
that support Intel(R) SSE4.1 instructions. 
.TP 15
ATOM_SSE4.2
May generate MOVBE instructions for Intel(R)
processors, depending on the setting of option 
\-minstruction (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinstruction (Windows*). May also generate Intel(R)
SSE4.2, SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions for Intel processors. Optimizes for
Intel(R) Atom(TM) processors that support Intel(R) SSE4.2 and MOVBE instructions. 
.IP
This keyword is only
available on Windows* and Linux* systems. 
.TP 15
ATOM_SSSE3
May generate MOVBE instructions for Intel(R)
processors, depending on the setting of option 
\-minstruction (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/Qinstruction (Windows*). May also generate SSSE3,
Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE instructions for Intel processors. Optimizes for
Intel(R) Atom(TM) processors that support Intel(R) SSE3 and MOVBE instructions. 
.IP
This keyword is only
available on Windows* and Linux* systems. 
.TP 15
SSE3_ATOM and 
SSSE3_ATOM
These option settings are deprecated. They
have the same effect as specifying 
ATOM_SSSE3. 
.TP 15
SSSE3
May generate SSSE3 and Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and
SSE instructions for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel processors that
support SSSE3 instructions. For OS X* systems, this value is only supported on
Intel(R) 64 architecture. This replaces value T, which is deprecated. 
.TP 15
SSE3
May generate Intel(R) SSE3, SSE2, and SSE
instructions for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel processors that support
Intel(R) SSE3 instructions. For OS X* systems, this value is only supported on
IA\-32 architecture. 
.TP 15
SSE2
May generate Intel(R) SSE2 and SSE instructions
for Intel(R) processors. Optimizes for Intel processors that support Intel(R) SSE2
instructions. This value is not available on OS X* systems. 
.RE
.IP
You can also specify 
Host. For more information, see option 
[Q]xHost. 
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Windows* systems: None Linux* systems: None OS X* systems using IA\-32
architecture: 
SSE3 OS X* systems using Intel(R) 64
architecture: 
SSSE3
.NL
On Windows systems, if neither 
/Qx nor 
/arch is specified, the default is 
/arch:SSE2. 
.IP
On Linux systems, if neither 
\-x nor 
\-m is specified, the default is 
\-msse2. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler which processor features
it may target, including which instruction sets and optimizations it may
generate. It also enables optimizations in addition to Intel feature\-specific
optimizations. 
.NL
.PP
The specialized code generated by this option may only
run on a subset of Intel(R) processors. 
.NL
.PP
The resulting executables created from these option 
\fIcode\fR values can only
be run on Intel(R) processors that support the indicated instruction set. 
.NL
.PP
The binaries produced by these 
\fIcode\fR values will run
on Intel(R) processors that support the specified features. 
.NL
.PP
Do not use 
\fIcode\fR values to
create binaries that will execute on a processor that is not compatible with
the targeted processor. The resulting program may fail with an illegal
instruction exception or display other unexpected behavior. 
.NL
.PP
Compiling the 
main program with
any of the 
\fIcode\fR values produces
binaries that display a fatal run\-time error if they are executed on
unsupported processors, including all non\-Intel processors. 
.NL
.PP
Compiler options 
m and 
arch produce binaries
that should run on processors not made by Intel that implement the same
capabilities as the corresponding Intel(R) processors. 
.NL
.PP
The 
\-x and 
/Qx options enable
additional optimizations not enabled with options 
\-m or 
/arch (nor with options 
ax and 
/Qax). 
.NL
.PP
On Windows systems, options 
/Qx and /arch are
mutually exclusive. If both are specified, the compiler uses the last one
specified and generates a warning. Similarly, on Linux and OS X systems,
options 
\-x and 
\-m are mutually
exclusive. If both are specified, the compiler uses the last one specified and
generates a warning. 
.NL
.PP
.B NOTE:
All settings except SSE2 do a CPU
check. However, if you specify option O0 (Linux* or OS X*) or option /Od
(Windows*), no CPU check is performed. 
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-X
.RS
.TP
Removes standard directories from the
include file search path.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
Standard directories are in the include file search
path.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option removes standard directories from the include
file search path. It prevents the compiler from searching the default path
specified by the 
CPATH environment
variable.
.NL
.PP
On Linux* and OS X* systems, specifying 
\-X (or 
\-noinclude) prevents the
compiler from searching in 
/usr/include for files specified in an INCLUDE statement. 
.NL
.PP
You can use this option with the 
I option to prevent the
compiler from searching the default path for include files and direct it to use
an alternate path.
.NL
.PP
This option affects fpp
preprocessor behavior and the USE statement.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
Linux and OS X: 
\-nostdinc
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-xHost
.RS
.TP
Tells the compiler to generate
instructions for the highest instruction set available on the compilation host
processor. 
.NL
.TP
\fBArchitecture Restrictions:\fR Not available on Intel(R) 64 architecture targeting the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner)
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
Windows* systems: None Linux* systems: None OS X* systems using IA\-32
architecture: 
\-xSSE3 OS X* systems using Intel(R) 64
architecture: 
\-xSSSE3
.NL
On Windows systems, if neither 
/Qx nor 
/arch is specified, the default is 
/arch:SSE2. 
.IP
On Linux systems, if neither 
\-x nor 
\-m is specified, the default is 
\-msse2. 
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option tells the compiler to generate instructions
for the highest instruction set available on the compilation host processor. 
.NL
.PP
The instructions generated by this compiler option differ depending on the
compilation host processor. 
.NL
.PP
The following table describes the effects of specifying the 
[Q]xHost option and it tells whether the resulting executable
will run on processors different from the host processor. 
.NL
.PP
Descriptions in the table refer to Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 2
(Intel(R) AVX2), Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions (Intel(R) AVX), Intel(R) Streaming
SIMD Extensions (Intel(R) SSE), and Supplemental Streaming SIMD Extensions
(SSSE). 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBInstruction Set of Host Processor 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBEffects When the \-xHost or /QxHost Compiler
Option is Specified 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) AVX\-512 
.NL
When compiling for 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing),
corresponds to option 
[Q]xMIC\-AVX512. The generated executable will not
run on non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel processors that do not
support all of Intel(R) AVX\-512 foundation, conflict detection, prefetch, and
exponential and reciprocal instructions.
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) AVX2 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xCORE\-AVX2. The generated executable will not run
on non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support Intel(R) AVX2 instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-march=core\-avx2 (Linux* and OS X*) or 
/arch:CORE\-AVX2 (Windows*). The generated executable
will run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least
Intel(R) AVX2 instructions.. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time
processor does not support Intel(R) AVX2 instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) AVX 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xAVX. The generated executable will not run on
non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support Intel(R) AVX instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-mavx (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:AVX (Windows). The generated executable will
run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least Intel(R)
AVX instructions. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time processor does
not support Intel(R) AVX instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) SSE4.2 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xSSE4.2. The generated executable will not run on
non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support Intel(R) SSE4.2 instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-msse4.2 (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:SSE4.2 (Windows). The generated executable
will run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least
Intel(R) SSE4.2 instructions. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time
processor does not support Intel(R) SSE4.2 instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) SSE4.1 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xSSE4.1. The generated executable will not run on
non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support Intel(R) SSE4.1 instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-msse4.1 (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:SSE4.1 (Windows). The generated executable
will run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least
Intel(R) SSE4.1 instructions. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time
processor does not support Intel(R) SSE4.1 instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
SSSE3 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xSSSE3. The generated executable will not run on
non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support SSSE3 instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-mssse3 (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:SSSE3 (Windows). The generated executable will
run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least SSSE3
instructions. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time processor does not
support SSSE3 instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) SSE3 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
[Q]xSSE3. The generated executable will not run on
non\-Intel processors and it will not run on Intel(R) processors that do not
support Intel(R) SSE3 instructions. 
.TP 18
When compiling on non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-msse3 (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:SSE3 (Windows). The generated executable will
run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least Intel(R)
SSE3 instructions. You may see a warning run\-time error if the run\-time
processor does not support Intel(R) SSE3 instructions. 
.NL
.TP 18
Intel(R) SSE2 
.NL
When compiling on Intel(R) processors or non\-Intel processors: 
.TP 18
Corresponds to option 
\-msse2 (Linux and OS X) or 
/arch:SSE2 (Windows). The generated executable will
run on Intel(R) processors and non\-Intel processors that support at least Intel(R)
SSE2 instructions. You may see a run\-time error if the run\-time processor does
not support Intel(R) SSE2 instructions. 
.NL
.PP
For more information on other settings for option 
[Q]x, see that option description. 
.NL
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOptimization Notice 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.TP 18
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability, functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors. Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice. 
.TP 18
Notice revision #20110804 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = = = 
.NL
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None 
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-Xlinker option
.RS
.TP
Passes a linker option directly to the linker.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.TP 18
\fIoption\fR
.NL
Is a linker option.
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
OFF
.NL
No options are passed directly to the linker.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option passes a linker option directly to the linker.
If \-Xlinker \-shared is specified, only \-shared is passed to the linker and no special work is done to ensure proper linkage for generating a shared object. \-Xlinker just takes whatever arguments are supplied and passes them directly to the linker.
.NL
.PP
If you want to pass compound options to the linker, for example "\-L $HOME/lib", you must use the following method:
.NL
.PP
\-Xlinker \-L \-Xlinker $HOME/lib
.PP
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.TP
.B
\-zero
.TP
.B
\-nozero
.RS
.TP
Initializes to zero variables of intrinsic type INTEGER, REAL, COMPLEX, or LOGICAL that are not yet initialized. This is a deprecated option. The replacement option is /Qinit:[no]zero or \-init=[no]zero.
.NL
.TP
\fBArguments:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.TP
\fBDefault:\fR 
.TP 18
\-nozero
.NL
Variables are not initialized to zero.
.TP
\fBDescription:\fR 
.PP
This option initializes to zero variables of intrinsic type INTEGER, REAL, COMPLEX, or LOGICAL that are not yet initialized.
.NL
.PP
Use option [Q]save on the command line to make all local variables specifically marked as SAVE.
.NL
.TP
\fBAlternate Options:\fR 
.PP
None
.NL
.RE
.SH PREDEFINED SYMBOLS
.PP
The Intel(R) Fortran documentation describes the predefined preprocessor
symbols in detail. This section provides a brief summary of the supported
symbols. 
.PP
You can use the 
\-U option to suppress an automatic definition of a
preprocessor symbol. This option suppresses any symbol definition currently in
effect for the specified name. This option performs the same function as an
#undef preprocessor directive. 
.PP
The following preprocessor symbols are available: 
.PP
.TP 18
Symbol
.NL
Description 
.NL
.TP 18
__APPLE__ 
.TP 18
(OS X*) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq]. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512BW__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Byte and Word
instructions. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option
[Q]xCORE\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512CD__ 
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Conflict Detection
instructions. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option 
[Q]xCORE\-AVX512, 
[Q]xCOMMON\-AVX512, 
[Q]xMIC\-AVX512, or higher processor\-targeting
options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512DQ__ 
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Doubleword and Quadword
instructions. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option 
[Q]xCORE\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting
options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512ER__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support Intel(R) Advanced
Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Exponential and Reciprocal instructions.
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option
[Q]xMIC\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512F__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Foundation instructions.
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option 
[Q]xCORE\-AVX512, 
[Q]xCOMMON\-AVX512, 
[Q]xMIC\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting
options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512PF__ 
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Prefetch instructions. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option 
[Q]xMIC\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting
options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
__AVX512VL__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for processors that support
Intel(R) Advanced Vector Extensions 512 (Intel(R) AVX\-512) Vector Length
extensions. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when option 
[Q]xCORE\-AVX512 or higher processor\-targeting
options are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
_DEBUG 
.TP 18
(Windows) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] only if options 
/dbglibs, 
/MT[d], or 
/MD[d] are specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
_DLL 
.TP 18
(Windows) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] only if one of the following
options is specified or implied: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
/libs:dll
.IP \(bu 2
/MD
.IP \(bu 2
/MDd
.IP \(bu 2
/MDs
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
__ELF__ 
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] at the start of compilation. 
.NL
.TP 18
__gnu_linux__ 
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] at the start of compilation. 
.NL
.TP 18
__i386__ 
.TP 18
__i386
.TP 18
i386
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] for compilations targeting
IA\-32 architecture. 
.NL
.TP 18
__INTEL_COMPILER
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
The Intel compiler version in the form VVSS,
where 
\fIVV\fR is the major version and 
\fISS\fR is the minor version. For example, Version
16.0 is indicated by a value of 1600. 
.NL
.TP 18
__INTEL_COMPILER_BUILD_DATE
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
The Intel compiler build date. It takes the
form YYYYMMDD, where 
\fIYYYY\fR is the year, 
\fIMM\fR is the month, and 
\fIDD\fR is the day. 
.NL
.TP 18
__INTEL_COMPILER_UPDATE 
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux) 
.NL
The Intel compiler update number within a
version (such as 1 for Update 1, etc.). See also symbol 
__INTEL_COMPILER. 
.NL
.TP 18
__INTEL_OFFLOAD
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] while building code to run on
the CPU and on the coprocessor. 
.TP 18
It is defined by default. It is undefined
when you specify the negative form of option 
[q or
Q]offload, or option 
/Qmic
(Windows*) or 
\-mmic
(Linux*). 
.TP 18
You can use this symbol in conjunction with
the negative form of option 
[q or
Q]offload, or the 
/Qmic
(Windows*) or 
\-mmic
(Linux*) option to protect code on the host that should only be executed for an
offload build, such as calls to the 
omp_set_num_threads_target family of APIs in 
mic_lib.f90. 
.NL
.TP 18
__KNC__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] while building code to run on
the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when you specify
option 
/Qmic (Windows*) or 
\-mmic (Linux*). 
.TP 18
It is undefined when you use the negative
form of option 
[q or Q]offload. 
.NL
.TP 18
__linux__
.TP 18
__linux 
.TP 18
linux
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] at the start of compilation. 
.NL
.TP 18
__MACH__ 
.TP 18
(OS X) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq]. 
.NL
.TP 18
__MIC__
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] while building code to run on
the Intel(R) MIC Architecture coprocessor. It is defined by default during the
coprocessor compilation. 
.TP 18
It is also defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when you specify
option 
/Qmic (Windows*) or 
\-mmic (Linux*) since that option tells the
compiler to build an application that runs natively on Intel(R) MIC Architecture.
.TP 18
It is undefined when you use the negative
form of option 
[q or Q]offload. 
.TP 18
You can specify this symbol to protect code
that should only be compiled for and executed on the coprocessor. 
.NL
.TP 18
_MT
.TP 18
(Windows) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] only if option 
/threads or 
/MT is
specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
_OPENMP=201511
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux, OS X) 
.NL
Defined when OpenMP* processing has been
requested (that is, option 
[q or
Q]openmp has been specified). 
.TP 18
The value takes the form YYYYMM, where 
\fIYYYY\fR is
the year and 
\fIMM\fR is
the month of the supported OpenMP* Fortran specification. 
.TP 18
The currently supported OpenMP* API is version 4.5, dated
November\-2015. 
.NL
.TP 18
__PIC__
.TP 18
__pic__
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] only if the code was requested
to be compiled as position\-independent code. 
.NL
.TP 18
__TARGET_ARCH_MIC
.TP 18
(Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] when building code to run on theIntel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)
during offload compilation. It is defined by default when you specify 
\-qoffload\-arch=mic\-avx512 (Linux) or 
/Qoffload\-arch=mic\-avx512 (Windows*).
.TP 18
You can specify this 
symbol to protect code that should only be
compiled for and executed on the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing)
during offloading.
.NL
.TP 18
__x86_64
.TP 18
__x86_64__
.TP 18
(Linux) 
.NL
Defined as \[aq]1\[aq] while building code targeting
Intel(R) 64 architecture. 
.NL
.SH Supported Environment Variables
.PP
You can customize your system environment by
specifying paths where the compiler searches for certain files such as
libraries, include files, configuration files, and certain settings. 
.SS Compiler Compile\-Time Environment
Variables
.PP
The following table shows the compile\-time
environment variables that affect the compiler: 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBCompile\-Time Environment Variable 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
IFORTCFG
.NL
Specifies a configuration file that the
compiler should use instead of the default configuration file. 
.TP 18
By default, the compiler uses the default
configuration file (ifort.cfg) from the same directory
where the compiler executable resides. 
.NL
.TP 18
INTEL_LICENSE_FILE
.NL
Specifies the location for the Intel
license file. 
.NL
.TP 18
__INTEL_PRE_FFLAGS
.TP 18
__INTEL_POST_FFLAGS
.NL
Specifies a set of compiler options to
add to the compile line. 
.TP 18
This is an extension to the facility already provided in the
compiler configuration file 
ifort.cfg. 
.TP 18
.PP
.B NOTE:
By default, a configuration file named 
(Windows*), 
icc.cfg (Linux*, OS X*), or 
icpc.cfg (Linux*, OS X*) 
ifort.cfg is used.
This file is in the same directory as the compiler executable. To use another
configuration file in another location, you can use the 
IFORTCFG
environment variable to assign the directory and file name for the
configuration file. 
.TP 18
You can insert command line options in the prefix position
using 
__INTEL_PRE_FFLAGS, or in the suffix position using 
__INTEL_POST_FFLAGS.
The command line is built as follows: 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fRifort\fI<PRE flags> 
\fR\fI<flags from configuration file> 
\fR\fI<flags from the compiler
invocation> 
\fR\fI<POST flags> 
\fR
.PP
.B NOTE:
The driver issues a warning that the
compiler is overriding an option because of an environment variable, but only
when you include the option 
/W5 (Windows*) or 
\-w3 (Linux* and OS X*). 
.NL
.TP 18
PATH
.NL
Specifies the directories the system
searches for binary executable files. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
On
Windows* this also affects the search for Dynamic Link Libraries (DLLs). 
.NL
.TP 18
TMP
.TP 18
TMPDIR
.TP 18
TEMP
.NL
Specifies the location for temporary
files. If none of these are specified, or writeable, or found, the compiler
stores temporary files in 
/tmp
(Linux, OS X) or the current directory (Windows). 
.TP 18
The compiler searches for these variables
in the following order: 
TMP, 
TMPDIR, and 
TEMP. 
.NL
.TP 18
LD_LIBRARY_PATH (Linux*) 
.NL
Specifies the location for shared objects
(.so files). 
.NL
.TP 18
DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH (OS X*) 
.NL
Specifies the path for dynamic libraries.
.NL
.TP 18
LIB (Windows*) 
.NL
Specifies the directories for all
libraries used by the compiler and linker. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fB Intel(R) MIC Architecture Environment Variables\fR
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_LIBRARY_PATH
.NL
Specifies the location on the host for target\-specific
static libraries for 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
Use 
LIBRARY_PATH for the
location of host\-specific static libraries on a host system, including those
for the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing).
.NL
.TP 18
\fB GNU Environment Variables
and Extensions\fR
.NL
.TP 18
CPATH (Linux* and OS X*) 
.NL
Specifies the path for
include and module files. 
.NL
.TP 18
GCCROOT (Linux*) 
.NL
Specifies the location of the gcc*
binaries. 
.TP 18
Set this variable only when the compiler
cannot locate the gcc binaries when using the 
\-gcc\-name option. 
.NL
.TP 18
GXX_INCLUDE (Linux*) 
.NL
Specifies the location of the gcc
headers. Set this variable to specify the locations of the gcc installed files
when the compiler does not find the needed values as specified by the use of 
\-gcc\-name=\fIdirectory\-name\fR/gcc or 
\-gxx\-name=\fIdirectory\-name\fR/g++. 
.NL
.TP 18
GXX_ROOT (Linux*) 
.NL
Specifies the location of the gcc
binaries. Set this variable to specify the locations of the gcc installed files
when the compiler does not find the needed values as specified by the use of 
\-gcc\-name=\fIdirectory\-name\fR/gcc or 
\-gxx\-name=\fIdirectory\-name\fR/g++. 
.NL
.TP 18
LIBRARY_PATH (Linux* and OS X*) 
.NL
Specifies the path for libraries to be used during the link
phase. 
.NL
.SS Compiler Run\-Time Environment
Variables
.PP
The Intel(R) Fortran
Compiler run\-time system recognizes a number of environment variables. These
variables can be used to customize run\-time diagnostic error reporting, allow
program continuation under certain conditions, disable the display of certain
dialog boxes under certain conditions, and allow just\-in\-time debugging. 
.NL
.PP
Environment variables relating to file
I/O are interpreted when the file is opened. Other variables are read when the
program starts. 
.NL
.PP
The order of
precedence for run\-time environment variables is: 
.IP 1) 4n 
.IP
OPEN keyword 
.IP 2) 4n 
.IP
Environment variable(s) 
.IP 3) 4n 
.IP
Command line option 
.NL
.PP
For Fortran runtime environment
variables that are boolean (either enabled or disabled), the following tables
describe values you can use to enable or disable them. These rules do not apply
to environment variables for OpenMP* (OMP_) and their extensions (KMP_), PGO,
or Intel(R) MIC Architecture. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBSetting a Run\-Time Environment Variable to ON or OFF 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBExamples 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
An integer composed entirely of digits other than 0 enables
the environment variable. 
.NL
1 
.TP 18
4938493848 
.NL
.TP 18
A string starting with 
\fB t\fR or 
\fB T\fR, 
\fB y\fR or 
\fB Y\fR, enables the environment variable. 
.TP 18
Because you cannot include quotes, or spaces preceding the
string, 
\fB " T"\fR and 
\fB \[aq] YES\[aq]\fR do not work, because both spaces and quotation
marks are considered letters. 
.NL
T 
.TP 18
t 
.TP 18
TRUE 
.TP 18
TFALSE 
.TP 18
Y 
.TP 18
y 
.TP 18
yes 
.TP 18
yeti 
.NL
.TP 18
Anything that doesn\[aq]t enable the environment variable
disables it. 
.NL
0 
.TP 18
\-1 
.TP 18
+1 
.TP 18
<no value set> 
.NL
.PP
The following table summarizes compiler environment
variables that are recognized at run time. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fBRun\-Time Environment Variable 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
F_UFMTENDIAN
.NL
This variable specifies the numbers of
the units to be used for little\-endian\-to\-big\-endian conversion purposes. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once when the first unit is
opened, and then checked for every open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_DUMP_CORE_FILE
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
This variable must be lowercase for Linux. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, a core dump will be taken when any severe
Intel(R) Fortran run\-time error occurs. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.TP 18
decfort_dump_flag is an alternate
spelling for 
FOR_DUMP_CORE_FILE
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_FMT_TERMINATOR
.NL
This variable specifies the numbers of
the units to have a specific record terminator. 
. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once when the first unit is
opened, and then checked for every open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_FMT_NO_WRAP_MARGIN
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, disables column
wrapping in Fortran list\-directed output when the record being written is
longer than 80 characters. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
There is no environment variable to set a value for the
right margin, this only disables wrapping. The RECL= open specifier can be used
to set the right margin when the unit is opened. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE (Wrap margin) 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_ACCEPT
.NL
The 
ACCEPT statement does not include an
explicit logical unit number. Instead, it uses an implicit internal logical
unit number and the 
FOR_ACCEPT
environment variable. If 
FOR_ACCEPT is 
\fInot\fR
defined, the code 
ACCEPT
f,iolist reads from standard input. If 
FOR_ACCEPT is
defined (as a file name optionally containing a path), the specified file would
be read. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_DEBUGGER_IS_PRESENT
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable tells the
Fortran run\-time library that your program is executing under a debugger, and
generates debug exceptions whenever severe or continuable errors are detected. 
.TP 18
On
Linux* and OS X*, this variable must be set for debug exceptions. Setting this
variable to TRUE when a program is 
\fInot\fR executing under a
debugger causes unpredictable behavior. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_DIAGNOSTIC_LOG_FILE
.NL
If this variable is set to the name of a
file, diagnostic output is written to the specified file. 
.TP 18
The Fortran run\-time system attempts to
open that file (append output) and write the error information (ASCII text) to
the file. 
.TP 18
Because the setting of 
FOR_DIAGNOSTIC_LOG_FILE is independent of 
FOR_DISABLE_DIAGNOSTIC_DISPLAY, you can
disable the screen display of information but still capture the error
information in a file. Because the text string you assign for the file name is
used literally, you must specify the full name. If the file open fails, no
error is reported and the run\-time system continues diagnostic processing. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_DISABLE_DIAGNOSTIC_DISPLAY
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable disables
the display of all error information. This variable is helpful if you just want
to test the error status of your program and do not want the Fortran run\-time
system to display any information about an abnormal program termination. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_FORCE_STACK_TRACE
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable forces a
traceback to follow any run\-time diagnostic message. 
.TP 18
If 
FOR_DISABLE_STACK_TRACE 
is also set, 
FOR_FORCE_STACK_TRACE 
takes precedence over 
FOR_DISABLE_STACK_TRACE 
. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_DISABLE_STACK_TRACE
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable disables
the call stack trace information that typically follows the displayed severe
error message text. 
.TP 18
The Fortran run\-time error message is
displayed regardless of whether 
FOR_DISABLE_STACK_TRACE is set to TRUE. If
the program is executing under a debugger, the automatic output of the stack
trace information by the Fortran library will be disabled to reduce noise. Use
the debugger\[aq]s stack trace facility to view the stack trace. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_IGNORE_EXCEPTIONS
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable disables
default run\-time exception handling to allow, for example, just\-in\-time
debugging. The run\-time system exception handler returns 
EXCEPTION_CONTINUE_SEARCH to the operating
system, which looks for other handlers to service the exception. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_NOERROR_DIALOGS
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable disables
the display of dialog boxes when certain exceptions or errors occur. This is
useful when running many test programs in batch mode to prevent a failure from
stopping execution of the entire test stream. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_PRINT
.NL
Neither the 
PRINT statement nor a 
WRITE statement with an asterisk (*) in
place of a unit number includes an explicit logical unit number. Instead, both
use an implicit internal logical unit number and the 
FOR_PRINT environment variable. If 
FOR_PRINT is 
\fInot\fR
defined, the code 
PRINT
f,iolist or 
WRITE (*,f)
iolist writes to standard output. If 
FOR_PRINT is defined (as a file name
optionally containing a path), the specified file would be written to. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_READ
.NL
A 
READ statement that uses an asterisk (*) in
place of a unit number does not include an explicit logical unit number.
Instead, it uses an implicit internal logical unit number and the 
FOR_READ environment variable. If 
FOR_READ is 
\fInot\fR defined, the code 
READ (*,f)
iolist or 
READ
f,iolist reads from 
standard input.
If 
FOR_READ is defined (as a file name
optionally containing a path), the specified file would be read. 
.NL
.TP 18
FOR_TYPE
.NL
The 
TYPE statement does not include an explicit
logical unit number. Instead, it uses an implicit internal logical unit number
and the 
FOR_TYPE environment variable. If 
FOR_TYPE is 
\fInot\fR defined, the code 
TYPE
f,iolist writes to standard output. If 
FOR_TYPE is defined (as a file name
optionally containing a path), the specified file would be written to. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_BLOCKSIZE
.NL
Specifies the default BLOCKSIZE value to
be used when BLOCKSIZE= is omitted on the 
OPEN statement. Valid values are 0 to
2147467264. Sizes are rounded up to the next 512\-byte boundary. 
.TP 18
This variable applies to all Fortran I/O units except
stderr, which is never buffered. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once at program initialization,
and checked for each unit open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_BUFFERCOUNT
.NL
Specifies the default BUFFERCOUNT value
to be used when BUFFERCOUNT= is omitted on the 
OPEN statement. Valid values are 0 to 127.
If set to 0, the default value of 1 is used. 
.TP 18
This variable applies to all Fortran I/O units except stdout
(units 
\fB *\fR and 
\fB 6\fR) and stderr. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once at program initialization,
and checked for each unit open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_BUFFERED
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, this variable specifies
that buffered I/O should be used at run time for input and output on all
Fortran I/O units, except stdout (units 
\fB *\fR and 
\fB 6\fR). Output to stderr is never buffered. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_BUFFERING_THRESHOLD=n
.NL
Specifies dynamic buffering for unformatted sequential 
READ operations: 
.TP 18
.IP \(bu 2
I/O list items
with a size 
<=\fIn\fR are buffered and are moved
one at a time from the buffer to the I/O list item. 
.IP \(bu 2
I/O list items
with a size 
>\fIn\fR are not buffered and are
moved one at a time from the file to the I/O list item. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_CONVERT\fIn\fR
.NL
Specifies the data format for an
unformatted file associated with a particular unit number (\fIn\fR). 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_CONVERT\fI.ext\fR and 
FORT_CONVERT_\fIext\fR
.NL
Specifies the data format for unformatted
files with a particular file extension suffix
(.\fIext\fR). 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_FMT_RECL
.NL
Specifies the default record length
(normally 132 bytes) for formatted files. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once at program initialization,
and checked for each unit open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_UFMT_RECL
.NL
Specifies the default record length
(normally 2040 bytes) for unformatted files. 
.TP 18
The variable is retrieved once at program initialization,
and checked for each unit open. 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT\fIn\fR
.NL
Specifies the file name for a particular
unit number 
\fIn\fR,
when a file name is not specified in the 
OPEN statement or an implicit 
OPEN is used, and the compiler option 
fpscomp
with option keyword 
filesfromcmd was not specified. Preconnected
files attached to units 0, 5, and 6 are associated with system standard I/O
files by default. 
.NL
.TP 18
NLSPATH (Linux* and OS X*) 
.NL
Specifies the path for the Intel(R) Fortran
run\-time error message catalog. 
.NL
.TP 18
TBK_ENABLE_VERBOSE_STACK_TRACE
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, traceback output
displays more detailed call stack information in the event of an error. 
.TP 18
The default brief output is usually
sufficient to determine where an error occurred. Brief output includes up to
twenty stack frames, reported one line per stack frame. For each frame, the
image name containing the PC, routine name, line number, and source file are
given. 
.TP 18
The verbose output, if selected, will
provide the exception context record (in addition to the information in brief
output) if the error was a machine exception (machine register dump), and for
each frame, the return address, frame pointer and stack pointer and possible
parameters to the routine. This output can be quite long (limited to 16K bytes)
and use of the environment variable 
FOR_DIAGNOSTIC_LOG_FILE is recommended if
you want to capture the output accurately. Most situations should not require
the use of verbose output. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
TBK_FULL_SRC_FILE_SPEC
.NL
Boolean. 
.TP 18
When set to TRUE, traceback output
displays complete file name information including the path. By default, the
traceback output displays only the file name and extension in the source file
field. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.NL
.TP 18
FORT_TMPDIR
.TP 18
TMP
.TP 18
TMPDIR
.TP 18
TEMP
.NL
Specifies an alternate working directory
where scratch files are created. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fB GNU extensions (recognized
by the Intel(R) OpenMP compatibility library)\fR
.NL
.TP 18
GOMP_CPU_AFFINITY (Linux*) 
.NL
GNU extension recognized by the Intel(R) OpenMP compatibility
library. Specifies a list of OS processor IDs. 
.TP 18
You must set this environment variable before the first
parallel region or before certain API calls including 
omp_get_max_threads(), 
omp_get_num_procs() and any affinity API
calls. For detailed information on this environment variable, see 
\fIThread Affinity Interface\fR. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR Affinity is disabled 
.NL
.TP 18
GOMP_STACKSIZE (Linux*) 
.NL
GNU extension recognized by the Intel(R)
OpenMP compatibility library. Same as 
OMP_STACKSIZE.KMP_STACKSIZE overrides 
GOMP_STACKSIZE, which overrides 
OMP_STACKSIZE.
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR See the description for 
OMP_STACKSIZE. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fB OpenMP* Environment Variables (OMP_) and Extensions
(KMP_) 
\fR
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_CANCELLATION
.NL
Activates cancellation of the innermost enclosing region of
the type specified. If set to true, the effects of the cancel construct and of
cancellation points are enabled and cancellation is activated. If set to false,
cancellation is disabled and the cancel construct and cancellation points are
effectively ignored. 
.TP 18
.PP
.B NOTE:
Internal barrier code will work
differently depending on whether the cancellation is enabled. Barrier code
should repeatedly check the global flag to figure out if the cancellation had
been triggered. If a thread observes the cancellation it should leave the
barrier prematurely with the return value 1 (may wake up other threads).
Otherwise, it should leave the barrier with the return value 0. 
.TP 18
Enables (true) or disables (false) cancellation of the innermost
enclosing region of the type specified. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.TP 18
\fB Example: 
\fROMP_CANCELLATION=true
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_DISPLAY_ENV
.NL
Enables (TRUE) or disables (FALSE) the printing to stderr of the OpenMP
version number and the values associated with the OpenMP environment variable. 
.TP 18
Possible values are: TRUE, FALSE, or
VERBOSE. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.TP 18
\fB Example:\fROMP_DISPLAY_ENV=true
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_DEFAULT_DEVICE
.NL
Sets the device that will be used in a target region. The
OpenMP routine 
omp_set_default_device or a 
device clause in a 
paralleldirective can override this variable. 
.TP 18
If no device with the specified device number exists, the
code is executed on the host. If this environment variable is not set, device
number 0 is used. 
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_DYNAMIC
.NL
Enables (true) or disables (false) the dynamic adjustment of the number
of threads. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.TP 18
\fB Example:\fROMP_DYNAMIC=true
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_MAX_ACTIVE_LEVELS
.NL
The maximum number of levels of parallel
nesting for the program. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR 1 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fROMP_MAX_ACTIVE_LEVELS=true
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_NESTED
.NL
Enables (true) or disables (false) nested parallelism. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR FALSE 
.TP 18
\fB Example:\fROMP_NESTED=true
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_NUM_THREADS
.NL
Sets the maximum number of threads to use
for OpenMP* parallel regions if no other value is specified in the application.
.TP 18
The value can be a single integer, in
which case it specifies the number of threads for all parallel regions. The
value can also be a comma\-separated list of integers, in which case each
integer specifies the number of threads for a parallel region at a nesting
level. 
.TP 18
The first position in the list represents
the outer\-most parallel nesting level, the second position represents the
next\-inner parallel nesting level, and so on. At any level, the integer can be
left out of the list. If the first integer in a list is left out, it implies
the normal default value for threads is used at the outer\-most level. If the
integer is left out of any other level, the number of threads for that level is
inherited from the previous level. 
.TP 18
This environment variable applies to the
options 
Qopenmp (Windows)
or 
qopenmp (Linux and OS X), or 
Qparallel (Windows) or 
qparallel (Linux and OS X.. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR The number of processors
visible to the operating system 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fROMP_NUM_THREADS=value[,value]*
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_PLACES
.NL
Specifies an explicit ordered list of places, either as an
abstract name describing a set of places or as an explicit list of places
described by nonnegative numbers. An exclusion operator ! can also be used to
exclude the number or place immediately following the operator. 
.TP 18
For 
\fB explicit lists\fR, the meaning of the numbers and how the
numbering is done for a list of nonnegative numbers are implementation defined.
Generally, the numbers represent the smallest unit of execution exposed by the
execution environment, typically a hardware thread. 
.TP 18
Intervals can be specified using the 
<lower\-bound> : 
<length> : 
<stride> notation to represent the
following list of numbers: 
.PP
"<lower\-bound>, <lower\-bound> + <stride>, ..., 
<lower\-bound> +(<length>\-1)*<stride>."
.PP
When 
<stride> is omitted, a unit stride is
assumed. Intervals can specify numbers within a place as well as sequences of
places. 
.PP
# EXPLICIT LIST EXAMPLE
setenv OMP_PLACES "{0,1,2,3},{4,5,6,7},{8,9,10,11},{12,13,14,15}"
setenv OMP_PLACES "{0:4},{4:4},{8:4},{12:4}"
setenv OMP_PLACES "{0:4}:4:4"
.PP
.TP 18
The 
\fB abstract names\fR listed below should be understood by
the execution and runtime environment: 
.TP 18
.IP \(bu 2
threads: Each place
corresponds to a single hardware thread on the target machine. 
.IP \(bu 2
cores: Each place
corresponds to a single core (having one or more hardware threads) on the
target machine. 
.IP \(bu 2
sockets: Each place
corresponds to a single socket (consisting of one or more cores) on the target
machine. 
.TP 18
When requesting fewer places or more resources than
available on the system, the determination of which resources of type 
abstract_name are to be included in the
place list is implementation\-defined. The precise definitions of the abstract
names are implementation defined. An implementation may also add abstract names
as appropriate for the target platform. The abstract name may be appended by a
positive number in parentheses to denote the length of the place list to be
created, that is 
abstract_name(\fInum\-places\fR).
.PP
# ABSTRACT NAMES EXAMPLE
setenv OMP_PLACES threads
setenv OMP_PLACES threads(4)
.PP
.PP
.B NOTE:
If any numerical values cannot be mapped to a processor on
the target platform the behavior is implementation\-defined. The behavior is
also implementation\-defined when the 
OMP_PLACES environment variable is
defined using an abstract name. 
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_PROC_BIND (Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Sets the thread affinity policy to be used for parallel
regions at the corresponding nested level. Enables (true) or
disables (false) the binding of threads to processor
contexts. If enabled, this is the same as specifying 
KMP_AFFINITY=scatter. If disabled, this is
the same as specifying 
KMP_AFFINITY=none. 
.TP 18
\fB Acceptable values:\fRTrue, 
false, or a comma separated list, each
element of which is one of the following values: 
master, 
close, 
spread. 
.TP 18
\fB Default: 
\fRFalse
.TP 18
If set to false, the execution environment may move OpenMP*
threads between OpenMP* places, thread affinity is disabled, and proc_bind
clauses on parallel constructs are ignored. Otherwise, the execution
environment should not move OpenMP* threads between OpenMP* places, thread
affinity is enabled, and the initial thread is bound to the first place in the
OpenMP* place list. 
.TP 18
If set to 
master, all threads are bound to the same
place as the master thread. If set to 
close, threads are bound to successive
places, close to where the master thread is bound. If set to 
spread, the master thread\[aq]s partition is
subdivided and threads are bound to single place successive sub\-partitions. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
KMP_AFFINITY takes precedence over 
GOMP_CPU_AFFINITY and 
OMP_PROC_BIND. 
GOMP_CPU_AFFINITY takes precedence over 
OMP_PROC_BIND. 
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_SCHEDULE
.NL
Sets the run\-time schedule type and an
optional chunk size. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRSTATIC, no chunk
size specified 
.TP 18
\fB Example syntax:\fROMP_SCHEDULE="kind[,chunk_size]"
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = =
=
.PP
.B NOTE:
Some environment variables are available for
both Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel microprocessors, but may perform
additional optimizations for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel
microprocessors.
= = = = = = = = =
=
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_STACKSIZE
.NL
Sets the number of bytes to allocate for
each OpenMP* thread to use as the private stack for the thread. Recommended
size is 16M. 
.TP 18
Use the optional suffixes to specify byte
units: 
B (bytes), 
K (Kilobytes), 
M (Megabytes), 
G (Gigabytes), or 
T (Terabytes) to specify the units. If you
specify a value without a suffix, the byte unit is assumed to be 
K (Kilobytes). 
.TP 18
This variable does not affect the native
operating system threads created by the user program, or the thread executing
the sequential part of an OpenMP* program or parallel programs created using
the option 
Qparallel (Windows) or 
qparallel (Linux and OS X). 
.TP 18
The 
kmp_{set,get}_stacksize_s() routines
set/retrieve the value. The 
kmp_set_stacksize_s() routine must be called
from sequential part, before first parallel region is created. Otherwise,
calling 
kmp_set_stacksize_s() has no effect. 
.TP 18
\fB Default (IA\-32 architecture):\fR 2M 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) 64 architecture):\fR
4M 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) MIC
architecture):\fR4M (on supported OSes) 
.TP 18
\fB Related environment variables:\fRKMP_STACKSIZE
(overrides 
OMP_STACKSIZE). 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fROMP_STACKSIZE=value
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_THREAD_LIMIT
.NL
Limits the number of
simultaneously\-executing threads in an OpenMP* program. 
.TP 18
If this limit is reached and another
native operating system thread encounters OpenMP* API calls or constructs, the
program can abort with an error message. If this limit is reached when an
OpenMP* parallel region begins, a one\-time warning message might be generated
indicating that the number of threads in the team was reduced, but the program
will continue. 
.TP 18
This environment variable is only used
for programs compiled with the following options: 
Qopenmp (Windows)
or 
qopenmp (Linux and OS X), or 
Qparallel (Windows) or 
qparallel (Linux and OS X). 
.TP 18
The 
omp_get_thread_limit() routine returns
the value of the limit. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR No enforced limit 
.TP 18
\fB Related environment variable:\fRKMP_ALL_THREADS (overrides 
OMP_THREAD_LIMIT). 
.TP 18
\fB Example syntax:\fROMP_THREAD_LIMIT=value
.NL
.TP 18
OMP_WAIT_POLICY
.NL
Decides whether threads spin (active) or
yield (passive) while they are waiting. 
.TP 18
OMP_WAIT_POLICY=ACTIVE
is an alias for 
KMP_LIBRARY=turnaround,
and 
OMP_WAIT_POLICY=PASSIVE
is an alias for 
KMP_LIBRARY=throughput. 
.TP 18
\fB Default: 
\fRPassive 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fROMP_WAIT_POLICY=value
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_AFFINITY (Windows, Linux) 
.NL
Enables run\-time library to bind threads
to physical processing units. 
.TP 18
You must set this environment variable before the first
parallel region, or certain API calls including 
omp_get_max_threads(), 
omp_get_num_procs() and any affinity API
calls. For detailed information on this environment variable, see 
\fIThread Affinity Interface\fR. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR
noverbose,warnings,respect,granularity=core,duplicates,none 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) MIC
architecture):\fR
noverbose,warnings,respect,granularity=fine,duplicates,scatter,0,0 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = =
=
.PP
.B NOTE:
Some environment variables are available for
both Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel microprocessors, but may perform
additional optimizations for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel
microprocessors.
= = = = = = = = =
=
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_ALL_THREADS
.NL
Limits the number of
simultaneously\-executing threads in an OpenMP* program. If this limit is
reached and another native operating system thread encounters OpenMP* API calls
or constructs, then the program may abort with an error message. If this limit
is reached at the time an OpenMP* parallel region begins, a one\-time warning
message may be generated indicating that the number of threads in the team was
reduced, but the program will continue execution. 
.TP 18
This environment variable is only used
for programs compiled with the 
qopenmp 
option. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR No enforced limit. 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_BLOCKTIME
.NL
Sets the time, in milliseconds, that a
thread should wait, after completing the execution of a parallel region, before
sleeping. 
.TP 18
Use the optional character suffixes: 
s (seconds), 
m (minutes), 
h (hours), or 
d (days) to specify the units. 
.TP 18
Specify 
infinite for an unlimited wait time. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR 200 milliseconds 
.TP 18
\fB Related Environment Variable:\fRKMP_LIBRARY
environment variable. 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_CPUINFO_FILE
.NL
Specifies an alternate file name for a
file containing the machine topology description. The file must be in the same
format as 
/proc/cpuinfo. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR None 
.TP 18
= = = = = = = = =
=
.PP
.B NOTE:
Some environment variables are available for
both Intel(R) microprocessors and non\-Intel microprocessors, but may perform
additional optimizations for Intel(R) microprocessors than for non\-Intel
microprocessors.
= = = = = = = = =
=
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_DETERMINISTIC_REDUCTION
.NL
Enables (true)
or disables (false) the use of a
specific ordering of the reduction operations for implementing the reduction
clause for an OpenMP* parallel region. This has the effect that, for a given
number of threads, in a given parallel region, for a given data set and
reduction operation, a floating point reduction done for an OpenMP* reduction
clause has a consistent floating point result from run to run, since round\-off
errors are identical. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRfalse
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_DYNAMIC_MODE
.NL
Selects the method used to determine the number of threads
to use for a parallel region when 
OMP_DYNAMIC=true.
Possible values: (asat | 
load_balance | 
thread_limit), where, 
.IP \(bu 2
asat: estimates
number of threads based on parallel start time; 
.PP
.B NOTE:
Support for 
asat 
(automatic self\-allocating threads) is now
deprecated and will be removed in a future release. 
.IP \(bu 2
load_balance:
tries to avoid using more threads than available execution units on the
machine; 
.IP \(bu 2
thread_limit: tries to avoid using
more threads than total execution units on the machine. 
.TP 18
\fB Default (IA\-32 architecture):\fRload_balance (on all supported OSes) 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) 64 architecture):\fRload_balance (on all supported OSes) 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) MIC
architecture):\fR thread_limit 
(on supported OSes) 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_HOT_TEAMS_MAX_LEVEL
.NL
Sets the maximum nested level to which teams of threads
will be hot. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
A 
\fIhot\fR team is a team of threads optimized for faster
reuse by subsequent parallel regions. In a hot team, threads are kept ready for
execution of the next parallel region, in contrast to the cold team, which is
freed after each parallel region, with its threads going into a common pool of
threads. 
.TP 18
For values of 2 and above, nested parallelism should be
enabled. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR 1 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_HOT_TEAMS_MODE
.NL
Specifies the run\-time behavior when the number of threads
in a hot team is reduced. 
.TP 18
Possible values: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
0: Extra threads are freed and put into a common pool of
threads. 
.IP \(bu 2
1: Extra threads are kept in the team in reserve, for
faster reuse in subsequent parallel regions. 
.RE
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR 0 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_HW_SUBSET
.NL
Specifies the number of sockets, cores per socket, and the
number of threads per core, to use with an OpenMP* application, as an
alternative to writing explicit affinity settings or a process affinity mask.
You can also specify an offset value to set which sockets and cores to use. 
.TP 18
\fB Syntax:\fR\fIsockets\fRS[@\fIoffset\fR],\fIcores\fRC[@\fIoffset\fR],\fIthreads\fRT
.TP 18
S, C and T are not case\-sensitive. 
.PP
.TP 18
sockets
.NL
The number of sockets to use. 
.TP 18
cores
.NL
The number of cores to use per socket. 
.TP 18
threads
.NL
The number of threads to use per core. 
.TP 18
offset
.NL
(Optional) The number of sockets or cores to skip. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
If you don\[aq]t specify one or more types of resource,
sockets, cores or threads, all available resources of that type are used. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
This variable does not work if the OpenMP* affinity is
set to 
none, the default on Intel(R) Xeon(R)
processors, or 
disabled. Set the affinity type by setting
the environment variable 
OMP_PROC_BIND to a value other than 
false, or by setting the environment
variable 
KMP_AFFINITY to a value other than 
none or 
disabled. 
.PP
On Intel(R) Xeon(R) Phi(TM) coprocessors, the default affinity
type is 
scatter, so 
KMP_HW_SUBSET works by default on this
platform. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR If omitted, the default value is the
available number of sockets, cores, or threads. 
.TP 18
\fB  Examples:\fR
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
2s,4c,2t: Use the first 2 sockets (s0
and s1), the first 4 cores on each socket (c0 \- c3), and 2 threads per core. 
.IP \(bu 2
2s@2,4c@8,2t: Skip the first 2 sockets
(s0 and s1) and use 2 sockets (s2\-s3), skip the first 8 cores (c0\-c7) and use 4
cores on each socket (c8\-c11), and use 2 threads per core. 
.IP \(bu 2
5C@1,3T: Use all available sockets,
skip the first core and use 5 cores, and use 3 threads per core. 
.IP \(bu 2
2T: Use all cores on all sockets, 2
threads per core. 
.IP \(bu 2
4C@12: Use 4 cores with offset 12, all
available threads per core. 
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_INHERIT_FP_CONTROL
.NL
Enables (true) or disables (false) the copying of the floating\-point
control settings of the master thread to the floating\-point control settings of
the OpenMP* worker threads at the start of each parallel region. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRtrue
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_LIBRARY
.NL
Selects the OpenMP* run\-time library
execution mode. The values for this variable are 
serial, 
turnaround, or 
throughput. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRthroughput
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_MONITOR_STACKSIZE
.NL
Sets the number of bytes to allocate for
the monitor thread, which is used for book\-keeping during program execution. 
.TP 18
Use the optional suffixes to specify byte
units: 
B (bytes), 
K (Kilobytes), 
M (Megabytes), 
G (Gigabytes), or 
T (Terabytes) to specify the units. If you
specify a value without a suffix, the byte unit is assumed to be 
K (Kilobytes). 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR max (32k, system minimum
thread stack size) 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_PLACE_THREADS
.NL
Deprecated; use
KMP_HW_SUBSET instead. 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_SETTINGS
.NL
Enables (true) or disables (false) the printing of OpenMP* run\-time
library environment variables during program execution. Two lists of variables
are printed: user\-defined environment variables settings and effective values
of variables used by OpenMP* run\-time library. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRfalse
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_STACKSIZE
.NL
Sets the number of bytes to allocate for
each OpenMP* thread to use as its private stack. 
.TP 18
Recommended size is 16m. 
.TP 18
Use the optional suffixes to specify byte
units: 
B (bytes), 
K (Kilobytes), 
M (Megabytes), 
G (Gigabytes), or 
T (Terabytes) to specify the units. If you
specify a value without a suffix, the byte unit is assumed to be 
K (Kilobytes). 
.TP 18
This variable does not affect the native
operating system threads created by the user program nor the thread executing
the sequential part of an OpenMP* program or parallel programs created using
the option 
Qparallel (Windows) or 
qparallel (Linux and OS X). 
.TP 18
KMP_STACKSIZE overrides 
GOMP_STACKSIZE, which overrides 
OMP_STACKSIZE.
.TP 18
\fB Default (IA\-32 architecture):\fR 2m 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) 64 architecture):\fR
4m 
.TP 18
\fB Default (Intel(R) MIC
architecture):\fR4M (on supported OSes) 
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_VERSION
.NL
Enables (true) or disables (false) the printing of OpenMP* run\-time
library version information during program execution. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRfalse
.NL
.TP 18
KMP_WARNINGS
.NL
Enables (true) or
disables (false) displaying warnings from the OpenMP*
run\-time library during program execution. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRtrue
.NL
.TP 18
\fB Intel(R) Many Integrated Core
(Intel(R) MIC) Environment Variables 
\fR
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_ENV_PREFIX
.NL
Controls environment variables passed to the target. 
.TP 18
By default, all environment variables set on the host are
passed to the target. Setting 
MIC_ENV_PREFIX passes
only environment variables that have a prefix of the value of this variable.
For example, setting 
MIC_ENV_PREFIX=ABC passes only environment
variables that have a prefix of 
ABC. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
Because the 
MIC_LD_LIBRARY_PATH variable is not
stripped and passed to the target, you cannot use 
MIC_ENV_PREFIX=\fB MIC\fR to change the 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH on the target. 
.PP
To change 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH on the target: 
.IP 1) 4n 
.IP
Set 
MIC_ENV_PREFIX to any prefix other
than 
\fB MIC\fR. 
.IP 2) 4n 
.IP
Create an additional pre\-fixed environment variable
on the host set to the desired value for 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH for the target. 
.PP
For example, setting these two environment variables on
the host sets 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH on the target to 
/tmp/mylibs. 
.PP
MIC_ENV_PREFIX=ABC
ABC_LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/tmp/mylibs
.PP
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_LD_LIBRARY_PATH
.NL
Specifies the location on the host for target\-specific
shared objects that may be loaded to the target for 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor x100 product
family (formerly code name Knights Corner).
The value is not passed to the target. See 
MIC_ENV_PREFIX for special handling of the
value on the target. 
.TP 18
Use 
LD_LIBRARY_PATH for the
location of host\-specific shared objects on a host system, including those for
the 
Intel(R) Xeon Phi(TM) coprocessor (code name
Knights Landing).
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_PROXY_IO
.NL
Enables (1) or
disables (0) the proxy of stderr and stdout, and specifies
whether the process wants I/O proxy support between the host and target. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR1
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fRMIC_PROXY_IO=0
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_SEP_MONITOR
.NL
Enables (1) or
disables (0) SEP at offload regions. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR0
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fRMIC_SEP_MONITOR=1
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_STACKSIZE
.NL
Specifies the stack size of the main
thread for the offload. This value is typically much larger than the stack size
for individual threads. It corresponds to what you would set with 
.B ulimit
\-s (BASH shell) or 
.B limit stacksize
(C shell) if you were
running natively on either the target or the host. 
.TP 18
Set this variable to 
\fIinteger\fRB|K|M|G|T, where: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fIB\fR = bytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIK\fR = kilobytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIM\fR = megabytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIG\fR = gigabytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIT\fR = terabytes 
.RE
.TP 18
\fB Default: 
\fR12M
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fRMIC_STACKSIZE=16M
.NL
.TP 18
MIC_USE_2MB_BUFFERS
.NL
Use 2M pages for (size > 
MIC_USE_2MB_BUFFERS). 
Variables with the
ALLOCATABLE or POINTER attribute 
whose runtime length exceeds the value of this
environment variable are allocated in large pages. 
.TP 18
Set this variable to 
\fIinteger\fRB|K|M|G|T, where: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fIB\fR = Bytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIK\fR = Kilobytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIM\fR = Megabytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIG\fR = Gigabytes 
.IP \(bu 2
\fIT\fR = Terabytes 
.RE
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fRMIC_USE_2MB_BUFFERS=64K
.NL
.TP 18
OFFLOAD_DEVICES
.NL
Restricts the offload process to use only
the coprocessors specified as the value of the variable. 
.TP 18
Set this variable to a comma\-separated list of target device
numbers in the range 0 to (\fInumber_of_devices_in_the_system\fR
\-1), where 0 is the first coprocessor in the system, and
(\fInumber_of_devices_in_the_system\fR \-1) is the last coprocessor
in the system. 
.TP 18
Coprocessors available for offloading are numbered
logically. The function 
OFFLOAD_NUMBER_OF_DEVICES returns the
number of available coprocessors. Coprocessor indices that you use in the 
target specifier of the offload 
directives are mapped
to coprocessors specified in 
OFFLOAD_DEVICES. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR The offload process uses
all devices. 
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fROFFLOAD_DEVICES = 1,2
.TP 18
On a system with more than two coprocessors installed, this
setting enables the application to use only coprocessors 1 and 2. Offloads to
coprocessors 0 or 1 are performed on the second and third physical
coprocessors. Offloads to target numbers higher than 1 wrap around, and all
offloads remain within coprocessors 0 and 1. The function 
OFFLOAD_NUMBER_OF_DEVICES, executed on
a coprocessor, returns 0 or 1 when the offload is running on coprocessor 1 or 2
as specified in 
OFFLOAD_DEVICES. 
.TP 18
Setting this variable to an empty value on Linux
(export OFFLOAD_DEVICES= 
) or the value 
none on Windows (set
OFFLOAD_DEVICES=none) impacts the execution of offloaded code within
your program as follows: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
When you use optional offloading, the code executes on
the host CPU. 
.IP \(bu 2
When you use mandatory offloading, the program
terminates with an offload error, reporting that a device is not available,
when it reaches a point in the execution where the coprocessor requires
initialization for offloading. 
.RE
.TP 18
You can specify optional and mandatory offloading using the 
optional and 
mandatory clauses in either of the
following: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
The compiler option 
qoffload (Linux) or 
Qoffload (Windows) 
.IP \(bu 2
The 
OFFLOAD directive
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
OFFLOAD_NODES
.NL
Defines a subset of a cluster (group of servers or nodes)
that is available for offloading from the host system. When offloading within a
cluster, this environment variable must be set to specify the available
offload\-able nodes. 
.TP 18
The value of the environment variable is a comma\-separated
list of machine specifiers. A machine specifier is either a machine name or an
IP address. The machine specifier may be optionally followed by a specification
of the node type and fabric type in square brackets. The default node type is
currently x200 and the default fabric type is OFI. More node and fabric types
may be supported in the future. 
.TP 18
The offloadable machines in OFFLOAD_NODES are assigned
device numbers 0, 1, 2 and so on, in the order specified. These device numbers
are available for offloading through 
#pragma offload target(mic:<number>) 
. The 
OFFLOAD_DEVICES environment variable may
be used to restrict offloading to a subset of the available cluster machines. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR There is no default. The
environment variable must be set if doing offload within a cluster. 
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fR export
OFFLOAD_NODES="machine1,machine2,10.2.100.50"
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fR export OFFLOAD_NODES="machine3[x200,OFI]"
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fR In the following,
machine2 and 10.2.100.50 will be used as processor 0 and 1 in target specified
in the offload pragma. 
.PP
export OFFLOAD_NODES="machine1,machine2,10.2.100.50"
export OFFLOAD_DEVICES=1,2 
.PP
.NL
.TP 18
OFFLOAD_INIT
.NL
Specifies a hint to the offload runtime
indicating when to initialize targets. 
.TP 18
Possible values: 
.IP \(bu 2
on_start: All available coprocessors
are initialized before entering 
the main program. 
.IP \(bu 2
on_offload: The target is initialized
immediately before the first offload to it. Initialization is done only on the
target that handles the offload. 
.IP \(bu 2
on_offload_all: All available targets
are initialized immediately before the first offload in an application. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fRon_offload_all
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fROFFLOAD_INIT=on_start
.NL
.TP 18
OFFLOAD_REPORT
.NL
Controls printing offload execution
time, in seconds, and the amount of data transferred, in bytes. This
environment variable is equivalent to using the 
__Offload_report API. 
.TP 18
Possible values: 
.IP \(bu 2
1: Prints the offload computation time,
in seconds. 
.IP \(bu 2
2: In addition to the information
produced at value 1, adds the amount of data transferred between the CPU and
the target, in bytes. 
.IP \(bu 2
3: In addition to the information
produced at value 2, gives additional details on offload activity, including
device initialization, and individual variable transfers. 
.TP 18
\fB Default:\fR None 
.TP 18
\fB  Example:\fROFFLOAD_REPORT=1
.TP 18
See also 
_Offload_report. 
.NL
.TP 18
\fB Profile Guided Optimization
(PGO_) Environment Variables 
\fR
.NL
.TP 18
INTEL_PROF_DUMP_CUMULATIVE
.NL
When using interval profile dumping
(initiated by 
INTEL_PROF_DUMP_INTERVAL or the function 
_PGOPTI_Set_Interval_Prof_Dump) during the
execution of an instrumented user application, allows creation of a single 
.dyn file to contain profiling
information instead of multiple 
.dyn files. If not set, executing an
instrumented user application creates a new 
.dyn file for each interval. 
.TP 18
Setting this environment variable is
useful for applications that do not terminate or those that terminate
abnormally (bypass the normal exit code). 
.NL
.TP 18
INTEL_PROF_DUMP_INTERVAL
.NL
Initiates interval profile dumping in an
instrumented user application. This environment variable may be used to
initiate Interval Profile Dumping in an instrumented application. 
.NL
.TP 18
INTEL_PROF_DYN_PREFIX
.NL
Specifies the prefix to be used for the 
.dyn filename to distinguish it from the
other 
.dyn 
files dumped by other PGO runs. Executing the
instrumented application generates a .dyn filename as follows: 
<prefix>_<timestamp>_<pid>.dyn,
where 
<prefix> is the identifier that you
have specified. 
.PP
.B NOTE:
The value specified in this environment variable must not
contain < > : " / \ | ? * characters. The default naming scheme is used
if an invalid prefix is specified. 
.NL
.TP 18
PROF_DIR
.NL
Specifies the directory where profiling files (files with
extensions 
.dyn, 
.dpi, 
.spi and so on) are stored. The default
is to store the 
.dyn files in the source directory of
the file containing the first executed instrumented routine in the binary
compiled with 
[Q]prof\-gen option. 
.TP 18
This variable applies to all three phases of the profiling
process: 
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
Instrumentation compilation and linking 
.IP \(bu 2
Instrumented execution 
.IP \(bu 2
Feedback compilation 
.RE
.NL
.TP 18
PROF_DPI
.NL
Name for the 
.dpi file. 
.TP 18
\fB Default: 
\fRpgopti.dpi
.NL
.TP 18
PROF_DUMP_INTERVAL
.NL
Deprecated; use 
INTEL_PROF_DUMP_INTERVAL instead. 
.NL
.TP 18
PROF_NO_CLOBBER
.NL
Alters the feedback compilation phase
slightly. By default, during the feedback compilation phase, the compiler
merges data from all dynamic information files and creates a new 
pgopti.dpi file if the 
.dyn files are newer than an existing 
pgopti.dpi file. 
.TP 18
When this variable is set, the compiler
does not overwrite the existing 
pgopti.dpi file. Instead, the
compiler issues a warning. You must remove the 
pgopti.dpi file if you want to use
additional dynamic information files. 
.NL
.PP
.SH TECHNICAL SUPPORT
.PP
You can find product documentation for many released products at
http://software.intel.com/en\-us/intel\-software\-technical\-documentation/. 
.SS Product Website and Support 
.PP
To find technical support information, to register
your product, or to contact Intel, please visit:
https://software.intel.com/en\-us/support/. 
.NL
.PP
At this site, you will find comprehensive product
information, including: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Links to each product, where you will find
technical information such as white papers, support, articles, and user forums 
.IP \(bu 2
Links to news and events 
.SS Release Notes
.PP
For detailed information on system requirements, late changes to the
products, supported architectures, operating systems, and Integrated
Development Environments (IDE) see the Release Notes for this product. 
.NL
.SS Forums
.PP
You can find helpful information in the Intel Software user forums.
You can also submit questions to the forums. To see the list of the available
forums, go to https://software.intel.com/en\-us/forum/. 
.NL
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
ifort(1), ld(1) 
.PP
The Intel(R) Fortran
Compiler Documentation has additional reference material on features of the
Intel(R) Fortran Compiler. 
.SH Legal Information
.PP
No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any
intellectual property rights is granted by this document. 
.NL
.PP
Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without
limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, and non\-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of
performance, course of dealing, or usage in trade. 
.NL
.PP
This document contains information on products, services and/or
processes in development. All information provided here is subject to change
without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest
forecast, schedule, specifications and roadmaps. 
.NL
.PP
The products and services described may contain defects or errors
which may cause deviations from published specifications. Current characterized
errata are available on request. 
.NL
.PP
Copies of documents which have an order number and are referenced in this
document, or other Intel literature, may be obtained by calling 1\-800\-548\-4725,
or go to: http://www.intel.com/design/literature.htm 
.PP
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for
non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel
microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction
sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability,
functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not
manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product
are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not
specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors.
Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more
information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice.
Notice revision #20110804 
.PP
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Atom, Intel Core, Intel Cilk, Intel VTune,
MMX, Pentium, Xeon, and Intel Xeon Phi are trademarks of Intel Corporation in
the U.S. and/or other countries. 
.PP
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the
property of others. 
.PP
(C) 2016, Intel Corporation. 
.PP
Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Hewlett\-Packard Development Company, L.P. 
