.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *             Copyright 2005\-2016, Intel Corporation               *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *                       All Rights Reserved.                        *
.\" .\" *                                                                   *
.\" .\" *********************************************************************
.TH  tselect 1 "Intel Corporation" "Copyright(C) 2005\-2016" "Intel(R) Test Prioritization Tool" 
.SS NAME
.PP
tselect \- invokes the test prioritization tool 
.NL
.SS SYNOPSIS
.PP
tselect [options] \-dpi_list <file> 
.NL
.PP
where: 
.IP \(bu 2
[options] represents zero or more tool options
(listed below) 
.IP \(bu 2
\-dpi_list <file> is a required option
used to specify the path to the list file containing the list of the all .dpi
files. 
.NL
.SH Description \- tselect
.PP
The test prioritization tool provides software developers with a capability to quickly and easily select and prioritize application tests as application profiles change. 
.PP
Note: The complete process of preparing the application for test prioritization tool use is documented in the Key Features section of the Intel(R) Compiler Documentation. 
.PP
The major features of the test prioritization tool are: 
.IP \(bu 2
Defining the tests that are most probably affected by the given change set. 
.IP \(bu 2
Finding a small number of tests that expose defects associated with regressions caused by a change set. 
.IP \(bu 2
Selecting and prioritizing the tests to achieve a certain level of code coverage in a minimal time. 
.PP
This man page is intended for Linux* and OS X* users. 
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
To see lists of compiler options by functionality, specify a category for option \-help on the command line. For a list of the categories you can specify, see \-help below. 
.SS Option Alphabetic Summary
.PP
This section provides an alphabetic listing of available 
tselect Tool options.
.NL
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.TP 18
\fBOption 
\fR
.NL
.NL
\fBDescription 
\fR
.NL
.NL
.TP 18
\-help
.NL
Prints tool option descriptions. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-dpi_list\fIfile\fR
.NL
Required. Specifies the name of the file
that contains the names of the dynamic profile information (.dpi) files. Each line of the file
must contain only one .dpi file name, which can be followed by its execution
time (optional). The name must uniquely identify the test. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-spi\fIfile\fR
.NL
Specifies the file name of the static
profile information file (.SPI). Default is 
pgopti.spi
.NL
.TP 18
\-o\fIfile\fR
.NL
Specifies the file name of the output
report file. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-comp\fIfile\fR
.NL
Specifies the file name that contains the
list of files of interest. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-cutoff\fIvalue\fR
.NL
Instructs the tool to terminate when the
cumulative block coverage reaches a preset percentage, as specified by 
value, of
pre\-computed total coverage. 
value must be
greater than 0.0 (for example, 99.00) but not greater than 100. 
value can be
set to 100. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-nototal
.NL
Instructs the tool to ignore the
pre\-compute total coverage process. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-mintime
.NL
Instructs the tool to minimize testing
execution time. The execution time of each test must be provided on the same
line of 
dpi_list
file, after the test name in dd:hh:mm:ss format. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-srcbasedir\fIdir\fR
.NL
Specifies a different top\-level project
directory than was used during compiler instrumentation run with the 
prof\-src\-root compiler option to
support relative paths to source files in place of absolute paths. 
.NL
.TP 18
\-verbose
.NL
Instructs the tool to generate more logging
information about program progress. 
.NL
.SS INSTRUCTIONS ON USING THE TEST\-PRIORITIZATION TOOL 
.PP
To run the tool: 
.IP 1) 4n 
Create the instrumented binary by compiling with \-prof\-genx. The corresponding static profile information file (.spi) will be created automatically 
.IP 2) 4n 
Remove all .dyn files. 
.IP 3) 4n 
For each test 1, ... , test n do the following: 
.RS
.IP 1) 4n 
Run the instrumented application on one. The dynamic profile information file (.dyn) will be created automatically. 
.IP 2) 4n 
Merge the dynamic profile information into the corresponding file (.dpi) by using a profmerge tool. 
.IP 3) 4n 
Remove the .dyn file. 
.IP 4) 4n 
Provide a list of test files (tests_list) 
.RE
.NL
.SH TECHNICAL SUPPORT
.PP
You can find product documentation for many released products at
http://software.intel.com/en\-us/intel\-software\-technical\-documentation/. 
.SS Product Website and Support 
.PP
To find technical support information, to register
your product, or to contact Intel, please visit:
https://software.intel.com/en\-us/support/. 
.NL
.PP
At this site, you will find comprehensive product
information, including: 
.NL
.IP \(bu 2
Links to each product, where you will find
technical information such as white papers, support, articles, and user forums 
.IP \(bu 2
Links to news and events 
.SS Release Notes
.PP
For detailed information on system requirements, late changes to the
products, supported architectures, operating systems, and Integrated
Development Environments (IDE) see the Release Notes for this product. 
.NL
.SS Forums
.PP
You can find helpful information in the Intel Software user forums.
You can also submit questions to the forums. To see the list of the available
forums, go to https://software.intel.com/en\-us/forum/. 
.NL
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
Refer to the Intel(R) Compiler Documentation for detailed information about using this tool in C++ and Fortran.
.SH Legal Information
.PP
No license (express or implied, by estoppel or otherwise) to any
intellectual property rights is granted by this document. 
.NL
.PP
Intel disclaims all express and implied warranties, including without
limitation, the implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular
purpose, and non\-infringement, as well as any warranty arising from course of
performance, course of dealing, or usage in trade. 
.NL
.PP
This document contains information on products, services and/or
processes in development. All information provided here is subject to change
without notice. Contact your Intel representative to obtain the latest
forecast, schedule, specifications and roadmaps. 
.NL
.PP
The products and services described may contain defects or errors
which may cause deviations from published specifications. Current characterized
errata are available on request. 
.NL
.PP
Copies of documents which have an order number and are referenced in this
document, or other Intel literature, may be obtained by calling 1\-800\-548\-4725,
or go to: http://www.intel.com/design/literature.htm 
.PP
Intel\[aq]s compilers may or may not optimize to the same degree for
non\-Intel microprocessors for optimizations that are not unique to Intel
microprocessors. These optimizations include SSE2, SSE3, and SSSE3 instruction
sets and other optimizations. Intel does not guarantee the availability,
functionality, or effectiveness of any optimization on microprocessors not
manufactured by Intel. Microprocessor\-dependent optimizations in this product
are intended for use with Intel microprocessors. Certain optimizations not
specific to Intel microarchitecture are reserved for Intel microprocessors.
Please refer to the applicable product User and Reference Guides for more
information regarding the specific instruction sets covered by this notice.
Notice revision #20110804 
.PP
Intel, the Intel logo, Intel Atom, Intel Core, Intel Cilk, Intel VTune,
MMX, Pentium, Xeon, and Intel Xeon Phi are trademarks of Intel Corporation in
the U.S. and/or other countries. 
.PP
* Other names and brands may be claimed as the
property of others. 
.PP
(C) 2016, Intel Corporation. 
.PP
Portions Copyright (C) 2001, Hewlett\-Packard Development Company, L.P. 
