.TH CEPL: "7" "June 2017" "cepl: CEPL v4.2.4" "User Commands"

.SH "NAME"
cepl \- a C11 Read-Eval-Print Loop

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.sp
.nf
\fIcepl\fR [\-hptvw] [\-c\fI<compiler>\fR] [\-l\fI<library name>\fR] [\-I\fI<include dir>\fR] [\-o\fI<output.c>\fR]
.fi

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.sp
C11 (\fBISO/IEC 9899:2011\fR) read–eval–print loop (\fBREPL\fR) currently supporting multiple compilers, readline key-bindings/tab-completion, variable tracking, and incremental undo.

.SH "USAGE"
.sp
Command history is read from and saved to \fI~/.cepl_history\fR.

.sp
Completions for \fB-l\fR library functions can be generated on-demand with the \fB-p\fR switch.

.SS "COMMANDS"
.sp
Input lines prefixed with a \fB;\fR are used to control internal state.

.HP
\fB;f[unction]\fR:	Define a function (e.g. \fB;f void foo(void) { … }\fR)
.HP
\fB;h[elp]\fR:		Show help
.HP
\fB;i[nclude]\fR:	Define an include (e.g. \fB;i #include <crypt.h>\fR)
.HP
\fB;m[acro]\fR:		Define a macro (e.g. \fB;m #define ZERO(x) (x ^ x)\fR)
.HP
\fB;o[utput]\fR:	Toggle -o (output file) flag
.HP
\fB;p[arse]\fR:		Toggle -p (shared library parsing) flag
.HP
\fB;q[uit]\fR:		Exit CEPL
.HP
\fB;r[eset]\fR:		Reset CEPL to its initial program state
.HP
\fB;t[racking]\fR:	Toggle variable tracking.
.HP
\fB;u[ndo]\fR:		Incremental undo (can be repeated)
.HP
\fB;w[arnings]\fR:	Toggle -w (warnings) flag

.SS "OPTIONS"
.sp
Command line options:

.HP
\fB\-h\fR,\fB\-\-help\fR:	Show help/usage information.
.HP
\fB\-p\fR,\fB\-\-parse\fR:	Disable addition of dynamic library symbols to readline completion.
.HP
\fB\-t\fR,\fB\-\-tracking\fR:	Toggle variable tracking.
.HP
\fB\-v\fR,\fB\-\-version\fR:	Show version information.
.HP
\fB\-w\fR,\fB\-\-warnings\fR:	Compile with \fB\-pedantic\-errors\fR \fB\-Wall\fR \fB\-Wextra\fR flags.
.HP
\fB\-c\fR,\fB\-\-compiler\fR:	Specify alternate compiler.
.HP
\fB\-l\fR:			Link against specified library (flag can be repeated).
.HP
\fB\-I\fR:			Search directory for header files (flag can be repeated).
.HP
\fB\-o\fR:			Name of the file to output source to.

.SH "AUTHOR"
.sp
Joey Pabalinas <alyptik@protonmail.org>

.SH "NOTES"
.sp
https://github.com/alyptik/cepl
